---
title: Apotheosis Session Notes
taxon: general-games
tags: apocalypse world
published: 2020-03-01
---

Apotheosis is a homebrew setting for [Apocalypse World][], 2nd
edition.  These are the tales of our survival.

[Apocalypse World]: http://apocalypse-world.com/


Player characters
-----------------

* **Commander Gustav Zagan**, the hardholder.  Likes everything to be
  ordered and as it should be, and rules Apotheosis with an iron fist
  to achieve that.  He keeps the people united by scaring them with
  stories of the mutants living in the wasteland, who he portrays as
  like [Firefly-style reavers][].

* **Dodge**, the driver.  Very mercenary, and known for being able to
  get risky jobs done, for the right price.  Her other car is a tank.

* **Grigsby delBarco**, the news.  An odd figure, wears an
  old-fashioned suit and keeps to himself in his radio shack,
  broadcasting "Technical Difficulties", his show.  Fancies himself a
  playwright, and tries to write moral plays; but they're always
  slightly off.  Has a prosthetic throat which crackles with static,
  makes it sound like he's always speaking over the radio, and
  prevents him from eating solid food.

* **Leah Morrel**, the savvyhead.  Laid claim to a hangar, which she
  uses as her workshop, and is secretly constructing a WWII-era plane
  in.  Lives in the radio shack with **Grigsby delBarco**.

* **Oi**, the child-thing.  Ambiguously gendered[^pronoun].  Travels
  the wastes to avoid the Wolves, and is currently living in the attic
  of the radio shack in Apotheosis.  Called "Oi" because that's what
  people shout after her.

* **Ruby Monsoon**, the battlebabe.  Often found in bars, drinking and
  playing with her seemingly endless collection of knives.  Has a
  friendly rivalry with **Dodge**.

[^pronoun]: But I'm going to use female pronouns because "they" and
  "them" get really awkward.

[Firefly-style reavers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reaver_(Firefly)


The Setting
-----------

### The Apocalypse

Nobody knows what happened, but they do know the effects.  The world
is as it was, mostly, but all the rain is acid, and heavy downpours
are common.  You don't want to get caught out in one of those without
protection, and you *definitely* don't want to drink the untreated
water.

Some plants and animals have adapted biologically, becoming resistant
to the acid.  Others live in shelter their entire lives.  Those which
could do neither have died off.  The acid-adapted plants and animals
can be eaten, but they don't taste good.

Some humans have adapted too, becoming the mutants living out in the
wastes.  They have varying degrees of mental acuity: some are almost
human, others are little more than feral beasts.  They tend to live in
small groups, the more human ones form camps, the more feral ones form
hunting packs.

Gustav portrays them all as mindless monsters, to unite the people of
Apotheosis with a shared fear and loathing.

### The Hold

Apotheosis itself is an old military air base which Gustav laid claim
to and built up.  Situated with the wastes to the west and other human
settlements a few miles to the east.  It mostly gets by with raiding
other settlements, both human and mutant.  Some hunting, scavenging,
and crude farming fill the gaps.

It's a large base, with between 75 and 150 people living there at any
time, there's not been an accurate count done in a while.  It's
well-armed too, with both weapons and specialised battle vehicles.
Gustav keeps order with his gang of 40 savage bastards, who he somehow
keeps control of, for now...

Food and other resources are rationed, with everyone getting what they
need.  For more special fare, bullets serve as the *de facto*
currency, both within Apotheosis itself and in the wider world.


Session 0, 2020-02-29
---------------------

<aside class="highlight">
This was a short session to get some establishing shots of the
characters.
</aside>

It's a fine morning with no current acid rain, though it has rained
overnight.

Gustav is out supervising repair works on the fence, which was damaged
in a recent mutant raid.  The workers are very organised, with no
arguments or brawling, just getting on with the task.  As he likes it.

*Meanwhile...*

Leah wakes up in her messy bedroom in the radio shack, atop the pile
of clothes she uses for a bed.  She's not been living there for long,
only a few months; maybe a year at most.  She goes out into the
kitchen and rummages through the fridge for some breakfast: a
delicious can of spam, hiding at the back, behind the tubes of
Grigsby's weird nutrient paste.  As she opens the can, she becomes
aware of the crackle of static, and turns around to see Grigsby.  Leah
chucks him a food-paste-tube and eats her disgusting spam.

When she's done with it, a cupboard opens and Oi peeks out.  "You
gonna use that?"  Leah shakes her head and passes the can to Oi, who
disappears out the front door and scrambles up the front of the
building.  Leah looks in the cupboard Oi came from: there's no obvious
hidden entrance.

Leah decides to go to the warehouse to get some parts for her project:
she's been building a WWII-era plane in her workshop, and it's nearly
done.  She's been stealing parts to work on it, but is worried people
have started to catch on.  Got to play it honest from now on and just
get parts legitimately.  All she needs now is an engine, and she can
go flying through the sky, free of this place.  She doesn't want
Gustav to know about the plane though, as he'll come up with some
nasty military use for it.

The warehouse is the domain of Foster, the quartermaster.  Harsh and
inflexible, but he'll give you what you want as long as you're not
taking more than your fair share.  He's Gustav's man to a T.  As Leah
is negotiating with Foster for an engine---*just* an engine, she
doesn't want word getting out that she's looking for a *plane
engine*---Gustav himself shows up, drinking a cup of cheap instant
coffee.  Well, it was cheap, in the old days, now it's a luxury item,
and he sends out raiding parties just to stock up.

Gustav's arrival unnerves Leah, but he doesn't talk.  He just watches
her go get the engine, and stagger out the warehouse back towards her
hangar.  When she's half way there he hands his mug to Foster, in much
the same way you'd put it down on a table, and strides after her.
"Need a hand?"  She thanks him, but he follows anyway, only turning to
go after she's inside the hangar.

*Meanwhile...*

Ruby and Dodge wake up in the bar, in a pile of empty cans and
discarded peanut shells.  There's nobody else there.  Ruby got back
last night from a secret mission for Gustav---getting more
coffee---and the first thing she did was challenge Dodge to a drinking
contest.  She groans, and heads off to deliver her secret package,
though Grigsby's voice over the radio is now saying "Folks, rumour has
it that a new shipment of coffee arrived in Apotheosis today!"

Dodge is still struggling to move when Dinnerlady, the man who runs
the bar and canteen, arrives to set up for the day.  "You look like
shit, go clean up." He throws a packet of peanuts to her and starts
polishing glasses.

*That evening...*

Oi stands on the roof of the warehouse, as she often does, looking out
across the waste.  She opens her mind, trying to sense the
Wolves... and knows instantly that one is to the east, a few miles
away.

A few minutes later, Gustav hears Oi's voice through the panels of his
ceiling warning him to watch out for "them".  Oi has spoken to him
like this before, but she's never shown herself.
