---
title: At home for one year
date: 2021-03-19
taxon: general
---

[The 19th of March, 2020 was the last time I visited the office][],
and there were only a couple of other people in.

Lockdowns have come and gone, restrictions have changed frequently and
unexpectedly, and so I've lived the last 12 months as a hermit.  Since
that final day in the office, one year ago today, I've only left my
flat once or twice a week, and that only to go shopping.

There is a vaccine now but, [judging from the timeline][], I'll still
be at home for a few more months.

[The 19th of March, 2020 was the last time I visited the office]: https://weeknotes.barrucadu.co.uk/notes/079.html
[judging from the timeline]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-55045639


## The Good and the Bad

It feels a bit selfish to type this, but frankly I've been having a
great time:

- **My sleep has improved.**  The lack of commute means I get an extra
  hour or so to lie in bed.

- **I've saved money.**  Partly due to the lack of commute, but also
  due to not going out to buy lunch.  Even one or two lunches a week
  add up.

- **I've been reading more.**  I now have more energy in the evenings
  after the work day ends, so I've got back into the habit of reading
  before bed.  And over 2020 I read 99 books.

- **I can cook whenever I want.**  I used to get hungry in the
  afternoons almost every day.  One day a thought hit me: if I'm at
  home all the time now, I can cook a proper meal for lunch!  And so I
  switched to having my main meal of the day for lunch, and a smaller
  meal in the evening.

- **I've started a second RPG group.**  I did get a bit bored after a
  couple of months, and so I reached out to some online friends to see
  if anyone wanted to play games.  I've now got a group which has been
  going strong since May, and I've deepened those friendships.

- **I'm not in an open office any more.**  I don't like open office
  layouts.  I always feel like someone is peering over my shoulder and
  watching my screen.  It's not an issue with just my current job,
  it's been an issue everywhere.  At home, I *know* there is nobody
  watching me, and I feel much more relaxed, even when I'm not
  slacking off.

Of course, there have been a handful of downsides too:

- **I've not seen any friends.**  I've got a small group of friends
  who meet up a couple of times a year, and we've missed a few of
  those meetings.  We've made do with Zoom calls, but it's not the
  same.

- **I've not seen any family.**  I normally only visit home at
  Christmas, and Christmas got cancelled.

- **[I came down with shingles][].**  Not very fun, possibly caused by
  stress.  I've got a few small scars on my forehead which, now that
  it's been nearly 6 months, will likely not heal.  However, other
  than that one week of illness, my health has been great.

But the upsides definitely outweigh these.  I was already only
physically meeting friends and family three or four times a year, so
missing one year isn't a huge change.  It's not like I've gone from
hanging out with people at the pub every week to never seeing anyone.

[I came down with shingles]: https://weeknotes.barrucadu.co.uk/notes/107.html


## ...and the Strange

The weirdest part of the past year, *by far*, has been the discovery
that a significant number of people just cannot cope with being alone,
and break down after spending even a fortnight by themselves.

I was regularly spending weeks by myself even before covid!

It makes some sense though.  I fill my time with reading, programming,
playing RPGs, and socialising with online friends.  Most people don't
do any of those to any significant degree (or at all).  If everything
you do for fun requires the physical presence of other people, the
past year will have been tough.

I also have appropriate desk space, and don't have noisy children or
housemates.  Being a loner with a nice flat during lockdown is life in
easy mode.

I'm sure I will have to return to the office at some point, but I'll
fully enjoy being at home until then.
