---
title: Campaign ideas
taxon: general-games
published: 2022-06-03
modified: 2022-08-17
---


## Call of Cthulhu / Pulp Cthulhu

### Don't forget to like and subscribe!

It's the modern day, and you are all paranormal investigation /
conspiracy theorist youtubers.  You uncover the truth that *the man*
doesn't want people to know!  Sure, many of your "ghost" tips turn out
to be teens doing drugs in an abandoned building at night, or similar
mundane explanations, but a little video editing can solve that
problem.  And sometimes---sometimes---you stumble upon something real.

This campaign is about the real ones.

**Player buy-in:** The player characters are a bunch of obnoxious
youtubers who'll willingly put their lives and sanity at risk just to
increase that view count.  No playing it safe here.  I also strongly
encourage you to really get into it, to narrate what you're doing as
if you're presenting a video to a skeptical audience, and to have
over-the-top reactions to things.  The campaign will be a very
episodic mystery-of-the-week style game with little in the way of an
overall plot.

### Masks of Nyarlathotep

Your good friend Jackson Elias, an author who infiltrates and writes
about cults, contacts you out of the blue in a panic.  He says he's
found signs of something big, some sort of conspiracy, but he won't go
into details over a channel which could be tapped.  He can't do this
alone and needs a reliable team to help him.  He sets a meeting: New
York, January 15th, 1925.

You arrive, but are too late.  Jackson is dead, freshly murdered.  A
strange symbol carved into his forehead, a symbol seen in a series of
other murders.  There's more here than meets the eye, you don't know
what's going on, but you do know that Jackson found something.  And
now he's dead.

**Player buy-in:** The player characters have to be motivated to solve
the mystery their friend left behind, even at risk of their own lives
and sanity.  This is a nonlinear campaign which has several major
parts with clues pointing between them, and which can be visited in
any order: but it's not static, your actions in any one part of the
campaign will have ramifications in other parts.  This is a long and
detailed campaign, you will have to keep careful notes of clues and
discoveries, or you just won't know what's going on, and you can
expect it to last somewhere between 1 and 2 years.

### The Two-Headed Serpent

The year is 1933.  In South America, the Chaco War between Bolivia and
Paraguay is in full swing.  You've been employed by a humanitarian
charity, the Caduceus Foundation, to deliver medical aid to civilians
caught up in the war.  Caduceus has flown you to Asuncion in Paraguay,
from where you travelled across country, escorting doctors, nurses,
and medical supplies to an aid camp deep in the jungle of Gran Chaco.

The truth, which the player characters don't know at the start, but
which their team leader will fill them in on, is that the Caduceus
Foundation is a front for an organisation which battles the Cthulhu
Mythos.  For now, the player characters are just heroes who have
volunteered to help a humanitarian charity, but soon they will be
pulled into combatting the mythos.

**Player buy-in:** The player characters are a heroic bunch who
volunteered to help civilians caught in a war, but don't bat an eye
when it turns out the organisation they joined is actually fighting
more than just humans.


## Old School Essentials

### Dolmenwood Hexcrawl

Dolmenwood is a mystical fairy-tale forest setting inspired by British
folklore and stories like *The King of Elfland's Daughter*.  It's a
large dense forest with threads of civilisation, roads and towns and
inns, running through it.

But if you move off those threads, the forest becomes dark and
magical: fearsome frost elves prowl the forest glades, looking for
ways to open the doors to Fairyland and begin their dominion once
more; pagan cults venerate the many standing stones, and jealously
guard their secrets; and the corrupted forces of the Nag Lord, chaos
godling from the north, expand their reach bit by bit.

**Player buy-in:** The player characters are Dolmenwood natives, who
have decided to leave behind the safe towns and fields that we know to
head off in search of adventure.  They're typical loot-motivated
adventurers.  You'll start off with an incomplete and inaccurate map
of things people generally know of, but will need to explore to get
concrete information.  There'll be plenty of rumours and strange
happenings to give you ideas.


## Traveller

### The Annililik Run

Every four years, there's a race along the old trade route between
Vland and Capital: contestants gather in their thousands, flying old
fashioned ships (limited to jump-2) and complying with stringent rules
(must jump only to inhabited systems, may not use collapsible fuel
tanks, may not engage in space combat with other contestants, etc) to
make the Annililik Run in honour of those traders who provided a
much-needed service during the turbulent beginnings of the Third
Imperium.

But that's just the surface.  The Annililik Run is anything but a
peaceful and safe race: it lasts 75 weeks, the prize for first place
(judged on a combination of travel time and trade profit) is enough to
set a crew up for life, and even in inhabited systems there's always
time for something to go wrong, or be *made* to go wrong.  Greed,
sabotage, outright cheating, and the hijinks of world governments and
corporate sponsors create trouble and danger at every stop.

**Player buy-in:** The whole campaign is about getting from point A to
point B, it's pretty linear.  The fun comes from figuring out how to
do that in a reasonable timeframe while making money on the way, while
also dealing with people who try to mislead or otherwise stop you.  Of
course, you can *also* cheat and try to thin out the competition.

### The Pirates of Drinax

Drinax, once a mighty interstellar kingdom but now a bombed-out
radioactive husk of a world, lies along two major trade routes and is
close to two of the most significant interstellar empires in all of
Charted Space: the Aslan Hierate and the Third Imperium.

The current king has a daring plan to recover some of Drinax's lost
glory: he needs a band of privateers and agents, who can curry favour
with worlds once part of the kingdom, and also cause trouble along the
trade routes between the Hierate and the Imperium.  No empire is
willing to allow another to establish a large permanent military force
close to their borders, but they may be willing to delegate the job of
policing the space lanes to a newly-reformed kingdom which they could
easily squash if it starts trouble.

The king's plan is to bring the old worlds of the kingdom back under
the banner of Drinax, stir up piracy in the region enough that the
empires agree something needs to be done, and then use that to get
their blessing for a new interstellar state.  Of course, if they learn
too soon that *Drinax* is behind the upsurge in piracy, it'll all fall
apart...

**Player buy-in:** The player characters have two very different
roles: negotiators and space pirates.  Both of those have to sound
fun.  You will be able to (and are encouraged to!) play the faction
game to some degree, making allies (or enemies) of powerful NPCs and
groups, and so could delegate one side of the campaign entirely to
some trusted aides, but it will take a while to get the resources to
do that, so you'll be doing both in the beginning.  Furthermore, this
is a sandbox-style campaign: there are several key adventures and
missions, but player characters are expected to go above and beyond
just those, and will need to think about how to curry favour with
factions and cause trouble on the trade routes themselves.

### To Boldly Go

It's the year 2090AD, the planets of the solar system have long-since
been settled and exploited, and are governed by the Planetary
Consortium based on Earth, which is essentially a puppet government
run by the megacorps.

Everything changed a few years ago, with the invention of the Jump
Drive, allowing ships to travel an entire parsec in a mere week.  The
Planetary Consortium saw this as the solution to the ongoing
population crisis and lack of resources, and started constructing and
loaning out jump-capable starships to competent crews, funding
exploration, prospecting, and research.

Now, there are a few permanent colonies in the closest suitable
systems.  Further out, there are exploration hubs staffed by
semi-permanent crews of outcasts, consortium officials, and explorers.
Exploration is dangerous and proceeds slowly, at the cost of many
lives.  Lucky crews have found bizarre alien creatures, they've found
resource-rich worlds which one day will be exploited, they've found
suitable sites for new colonies, and some have even found artefacts
and ruins from ancient civilisations.  Nobody has found a living
intelligent alien species yet, but First Contact is the dream of every
explorer.

**Player buy-in:** The player characters are brave (or perhaps just
foolhardy) space adventurers.  They risk death every time they jump
into uncharted space, and are motivated by the thrill of the unknown.
Whatever you do and wherever you go, chances are you're the first
humans to do so.

### The Traveller Campaign

A sandbox campaign set in the standard Traveller setting.  This will
probably be in a border region like the Spinward Marches or the Trojan
Reach just because I think being set entirely within one of the vast
space empires reduces the scope for small-scale interstellar politics:
it's either big-scale dukes-plotting-against-the-emperor kind of thing
or power-tripping planetary governments, with nothing in between.

You will have a ship and a mortgage to pay off, or maybe a free ship
from someone you owe favours to, and will need to do whatever it takes
to meet those obligations.  Carrying freight and passengers is easy
but kind of dull, seeking out patrons to undertake missions for pay
can be better but also risky.  You'll occasionally unintentionally
stumble into trouble or adventure.  You can follow rumours to find
wealth, or maybe just disaster.

**Player buy-in:** This is essentially a job- or planet-of-the-week /
"do what you want" campaign: I'll prepare interesting locations,
people, rumours, and opportunities, and you engage with whatever seems
fun.  This campaign can easily transform into a more focussed one if
we want.
