---
title: Call of Cthulhu (Masks of Nyarlathotep) (2018-09 to 2020-02) notes
taxon: general-games
tags: call of cthulhu
published: 2018-11-04
modified: 2020-02-02
---

<span class="highlight">This campaign has ended.</span>

Masks of Nyarlathotep is a campaign for Call of Cthulhu.  We're
playing the new edition for CoC 7e.  These are the tales of our
investigations.


Player characters
-----------------

* **Clarissa Ashdown** (23), an antiquarian from England.  Calls
  herself "Lady Ashdown", but is actually heiress to that title.

* **Wilhelmina Braun** (26), a drifter from Austria.  Lived on the
  streets of Lima, then moved to New York to work for Prospero House
  following the events in Peru.

* **Dr. Carson Crane** (34), a doctor of medicine from Louisiana.
  Indefinitely insane: prone to sensory delusions and bouts of
  madness.  Suffering from myxophobia, the fear of slime.

* **Professor Arthur Musgrave** (62), an archaeologist from London.
  Suffering from ballistophobia, the fear of guns and bullets.

* **Jason Steele** (32), a private eye from Salem.  Not insane, but
  seems to be a bit paranoid nonetheless.

* **Janneke van Heuvelen** (32), self-taught archaeologist from the
  Netherlands and ex-member of the Clive Expedition.

These ages and descriptions reflect the characters as they currently
are, not as they were at the beginning of the campaign.


Notable possessions
-------------------

### Found in Peru

- Wilhelmina's rusty bike, which she found on the streets of Lima one
  day.

- A golden mirror, found in Peru, similar in design to artefacts found
  in Tiwanaku.  Gave Prof. Musgrave a vision when he looked into it.

### Found in America

- A cloth headdress with a severed human tongue attached to the front.

- <span class="highlight">[Stolen]</span>
  A robe made of feathers.

- The book **Africa's Dark Sects**, which Jackson Elias was looking
  for at Harvard University Library.  The book details Nigel
  Blackwell's travels across Africa and the cults he encountered on
  the way, including a description in great detail of a cult summoning
  the monster they worship.  It contains one spell, and will take
  several weeks to study fully.

- <span class="highlight">[Stolen]</span>
  A woven wooden mask, like a woven basket, but with no eyeholes.  On
  the top of the mask are four monstrous faces, at right angles to
  each other.  Prof. Musgrave identified the mask being possibly from
  the Congo.

- <span class="highlight">[Stolen]</span>
  A wooden sceptre carved with hieroglyphics saying "Nyambe, Thy Power
  Mine".  From the context, Nyambe is a given name, but not one any of
  you are familiar with.

- A marine chronometer, a very accurate clock used by sailors to
  calculate their position.  It was set to GMT, rather than local
  time.

### Found in England

- Paintings by Miles Shipley:

  - **The Dark Pharaoh** - a processional scene in which a mass of
    people prostrate themselves before a golden chariot.  Standing
    atop the chariot is a pharaoh in black and gold robes, his face
    turned away from the canvas.  Behind the pharaoh, two men have
    been impaled on stakes, and are being eaten by a pack of jackals.

  - **Drawn in Blood** - a man being cut open by a silver dagger, with
    an occult symbol carved into his chest which you can't quite seem
    to focus on.

  - **Black Mountain** - a towering mountain over which rises a
    monstrous demonic creature, its head a great tentacle covered in
    blood.  In a nearby temple-like building, small human figures
    wearing a headdress with a red tentacle lift their arms towards it
    in supplication.

  - A hyper-realistic, unfinished, painting of a swampy landscape in
    the Permian era, featuring humanoid lizards.  The figures in the
    painting seem to move purposefully when you look at it.

- A greenish hallucinogenic drug which provokes mythos visions.

### Found in China

- A gross statuette of a bloated, tentacled, woman.

- A strange and intricate mechanism.

- A bunch of voluminous black and yellow robes.

- The book **True Magick** (1700s, English).  Details the nature and
  habits of "demonic creatures", including the means to summon them.
  Also discusses the author's interpretation of the different schools
  of magic.

- Some ancient scrolls written in Chinese.  Currently with Mr. Lung.

- Aubrey Penhew's diaries.

### Found in Kenya

- A wooden fly whisk, which you are told can detect evil.

- A lizard named "Who-Is-Not-What-She-Seems" in a wooden cage, called
  "Who" for short.  Who's two arms split half way down, forming four
  forearms with pincers, and the mouth is on the vertical axis rather
  than the horizontal.


Peru session 1, 2018-09-29
--------------------------

### 18th of March, 1921

You all responded to a newspaper advert looking for participants in an
expedition to find an unknown pyramid in Peru, organised by one
Augustus Larkin.

In Lima, Peru, you met Augustus Larkin, a sickly looking white man
with a British accent, who you noticed is possibly suffering opioid
withdrawal symptoms; Luis de Mendoza, a Hispanic-looking man, who is
Larkin's silent and imposing assistant; and Jesse Hughes, an
African-American folklorist.  "Jesse Hughes" is actually an alias he
has given Larkin, his real identity is Jackson Elias, a not-unknown
author who investigates and writes about real-world cults.

Over dinner, Larkin gave you an overview of the expedition and what he
hopes to find.  Afterwards, Jackson Elias revealed that he has doubts:
he's in Peru to investigate an ancient death cult behind the legend of
the "kharisiri", fat-sucking vampires.  Mendoza has a fearsome
reputation, and Larkin is acting strangely; Jackson Elias thinks that
they, the pyramid, and this expedition are all connected to the cult
somehow.

You, and Jackson Elias, are staying in the Hotel Maury; Larkin and
Mendoza are staying in the Hotel Espana.  The expedition leaves the
morning of the day after tomorrow to Puno, and from there into the
mountains: so you have one evening and one full day in Lima.

### 19th of March, 1921

You went with Jackson Elias to meet with Professor Memesio Sanchez, a
respected archaeologist and historian at the local
university. Professor Sanchez has offered numerous times to help
Larkin's expedition, but been rebuffed or ignored every time.  He
thinks that Larkin plans to steal the pyramid's historical treasures
and take them abroad, which the law currently does not prevent.  He
and his assistant, the undergraduate Trinidad Rizo, have been
conducting research into the possible location of the pyramid, based
on documents in the university archives.

Rizo was taking an unusually long time to arrive at the meeting, so
you---not including Jackson Elias and Professor Sanchez---went to the
store room to investigate.  There you found signs of a struggle, and
Rizo's dead body.  Boxes had been knocked off shelves, and she was
partly buried.  You found the skin stretched tightly over her bones,
as if the fat had been removed from her body, and a large circular
wound in her chest.


Peru session 2, 2018-10-27
--------------------------

### 19th of March, 1921 (early afternoon)

Still reeling from the shock of finding Rizo's damaged body,
Prof. Musgrave ran back to the office to fetch Prof. Sanchez and
Jackson Elias.

Dr. Crane, as he finished his examination of the body and climbed to
his feet noticed two things previously missed: a sheet of handwritten
paper sticking out of Rizo's jacket pocket, and the glint of gold from
a crate next to her body.  You all read the paper while you waited for
Prof. Musgrave and the rest to return: it was Rizo's notes on "The
Final Confessions of Gaspar Figueroa", a conquistador who came to Peru
in 1541.  The notes describe how he and his companions---Hernando
Ruiz, Diego Garrido, Luis de Mendoza, and Pedro de Velasco---found an
ancient temple near Lake Titicaca full of gold, how they removed some
of the gold and, that night, all turned into ravenous monsters who
pursued Figueroa.  Figueroa eventually arrived in Lima, wasted and
weakened by his ordeal, still carrying the gold they removed.  For the
rest of his days, Figueroa was plagued by hearing the voices of his
friends, crying out in inhuman hunger; and another voice, ancient and
seductive, promising him eternal life if he returned to the temple.

Musgrave, Sanchez, and Elias all arrived back.  Prof. Sanchez, shocked
and grieving, collapsed to the floor next to Rizo's corpse; Lady
Ashdown examined the gold in the crate, and found it to be a solid
gold band covered in geometric shapes, with ragged edges as if it had
been torn from a larger design, and managed to get enough sense out of
Prof. Sanchez to learn that this gold was found with the Gaspar
Figueroa documents.  The crate itself looked like it had been torn
apart, rather than being damaged by simply falling to the floor as a
shelf was knocked.  Furthermore, she noticed that the gold, while cold
to the touch, had burned scraps of skin stuck to it, as if someone had
tried to pick it up while red hot.

You all argued about how best to distribute weapons amongst the party
as you pursued the presumed attacker by following the bloody
footprints, until Sanchez cried out "we have to call the *police*!"
You decided to split up: Jackson Elias and Prof. Sanchez would go back
to his office to call the police, Wilhelmina would stay here to watch
the body, and the rest of you would follow the footprints.

The footprints became harder and harder to track, and you lost them
back in the corridor leading to Prof. Sanchez's office.  In front of
you was the door outside, to your left were the offices.  Lady Ashdown
and Jason Steele went outside, Dr. Crane and Prof. Musgrave decided to
go check out the offices.  As they arrived at Prof. Sanchez's office,
Prof. Musgrave glimpsed a face peering in through the window, which
quickly disappeared.  The window looked out onto an area behind the
university building full of trees and shrubbery, with no paths and few
visitors.  You both, and Jackson Elias, climbed out of the window, but
couldn't see anyone.  Prof. Musgrave heard quiet footsteps not very
far away, as of someone trying to sneak away, and ran towards the
source.

Prof. Musgrave emerged into a clearing, to find Luis de Mendoza, who
turned slowly and fixed the professor with a silent gaze.  Dr. Crane
and Jackson Elias caught up as you stared each other down.
Prof. Musgrave drew a gun, and tried to question Mendoza: silence.
Jackson Elias tried in Spanish: silence.  Dr. Crane went to fetch the
others; after he left, Mendoza charged Prof. Musgrave, who shot him
twice without slowing him down.  Mendoza barreled into the professor,
tackling him to the ground, but got shot at point-blank range by
Jackson Elias, flinging him off, and he lay still.  Everyone but
Wilhelmina, who was still watching the body, showed up a few minutes
later.  Dr. Crane examined the body and said that no man could survive
that.  About half an hour later, the police showed up and took over.

You decided to go confront Larkin, to see what he knew about Mendoza
and, if nothing else, to tell him he needed a new bodyguard as you'd
killed his current one.  You arrived at the Hotel Espana and met the
aged proprietor, Petronila Cupitina, who directed you to Larkin and
Mendoza's rooms.  Both were silent.  After fiddling around with
lockpicks and considering scaling the exterior of the building, you
discovered Larkin's room was actually unlocked all along, and
cautiously entered.  The room was a tip, with things scattered
everywhere.  There you found Larkin, out of his mind on a large dose
of heroin, which Dr. Crane estimated would not be fatal, but which
would last several more hours.  Larkin vaguely recognised you, but was
unable to do anything more than suggest that you meet some other time.

You decided to snoop around and look for clues.  Wilhelmina
unsuccessfully tried to find a map to the pyramid.  Jackson Elias
noticed that Larkin had a large tattoo on his check: of a person, but
in the place of his head was a large spiral.  He recognised this as
the symbol of the Cult of the Bloody Tongue, a particularly violent
Kenyan cult, and had no idea what would bring them to Peru.  Under the
stench of Larkin's strong cologne, Lady Ashdown noticed the faint
smell of rotting meat.

You then broke into Mendoza's room.  In contrast to Larkin's, it was
spotlessly clean, as if it had never been used.  Again, Wilhelmina
unsuccessfully looked for a map.  Jason Steele found a small mirror of
polished gold beneath the mattress, the only personal item in the
room.  Prof. Musgrave examined it... and had a brief vision of white
tentacles bursting through a pyramid.

You decided to come back after a few hours to talk to Larkin when he
was sober again.  Prof. Musgrave went back to his hotel room to rest.
The rest of you confronted Larkin, telling him that Mendoza had killed
a girl at the university, and asking how long Mendoza had been in his
employ.  Larkin expressed shock and disbelief that Mendoza would do
such a thing, and said that he had only known Mendoza for a few
months.  Lady Ashdown realised that Larkin was lying.  Larkin seemed
to have no recollection of your visit that afternoon.

### 20th of March, 1921

You set off to Puno in the Andean foothills.  Larkin was determined
that the loss of Mendoza not slow down the expedition.  This was an
uneventful three-day journey by truck, during which you fought off
altitude sickness.

You had one night to rest in Puno before heading out the next morning
to the pyramid on foot.  Most of you chose to stay in the hotel, but
Wilhelmina decided to roam the streets.  She realised an old woman was
following her, and confronted this person.  The old woman asked if
Wilhelmina was with Larkin and, upon hearing that she was but that she
didn't trust Larkin, the woman said to follow her.  She said her name
was Nayra, and that she didn't think it was a good idea to go with
Larkin to the pyramid.  She told a local legend, of an unknown dark
god that fell from the sky into Lake Titicaca, and brought hunger and
famine with it.  One day a hero lured the god into a cave, which was
full of the most delicious tubers and grubs; and sealed the cave with
huge rocks.  A pyramid was then built over the cave, with spells
worked in gold to keep the god imprisoned forever.  Wilhelmina
wondered aloud if the god had escaped[^peru2_1], at which Nayra
crossed herself[^peru2_2] and shuddered.

[^peru2_1]: Out-of-character at this point you were discussing a few
  theories: such as if the golden band at at the university which
  Gaspar Figueroa brought from a pyramid was part of the golden seal
  used to keep the god imprisoned, and if Mendoza was some aspect or
  manifestation of this god who had escaped when the seal was broken.

[^peru2_2]: Nayra seems to follow a mixture of Catholicism and local
  beliefs.

### 21st of March, 1921

You discussed what you knew, and sent a telegram off to Prof. Sanchez
detailing your findings.  You thought that you might need to bring the
gold band to the pyramid, so it's best for him to be prepared.

You then set out into the jungle with Larkin, using pack animals to
carry your supplies.  No locals would accompany you now.  After a few
hours you stopped for lunch, and Lady Ashdown spied a majestic jaguar
in the distance.

That night around 3am, the noise of one of the pack animals in
distress alerted Dr. Crane, who was on watch, and awakened Lady
Ashdown, a light sleeper.  You found a filthy man, stinking and
dressed in rags, pinning one of the animals to the ground with his
face pressed into it.  Lady Ashdown hit the man in the head with a
crowbar, knocking him off the animal, and revealing that his mouth was
no human mouth: it was circular and full of sharp teeth, much like a
lamprey.  The rest of you had awoken at this point, and easily dealt
with the man.


Peru session 3, 2018-11-11
--------------------------

### 22nd of March, 1921 (early morning)

Dr. Crane examined the body of the man who attacked your pack animals,
and the wound on the animal, and determined that it matched the wound
on Rizo's body back in Lima.  He judged that it was probably a similar
creature which had attacked her.  Larkin appeared shocked, asking
"what was that man?", but you realised he was lying: he seemed
surprised that the attack had occurred, but not by the man's
existence.  You buried the man and the animal to avoid attracting
scavenging animals, and returned to bed.

### 22nd of March, 1921

The second day and night of your journey passed uneventfully.

### 23rd of March, 1921

In the third afternoon, you saw two people heading in the same
direction as you, half a mile ahead.  Larkin suggested they may be
local farmers.  You failed to catch up with them.

You arrived at the pyramid, looking down upon it from half-way up a
mountain.  The plateau which held it had no vegetation, just dirt,
rock, a pit next to the south wall, and the part-buried pyramid with a
crack running along the top.  Two figures were below: you could see
one standing next to the pyramid, and one climbing the side.  The one
climbing the side crouched over the crack for a few minutes, then both
went to the pit next to the south wall and climbed down.

The air swarmed with flies, which Prof. Musgrave identified as
bloatflies, which feed on carrion.

You descended to the pyramid and had a look around.  You found:

* The pit the people had climbed down into, which was full of
  emaciated and shrunken bodies in various states of decay; the air
  full of flies and the stench of death.
* The crack atop the pyramid, about 5cm wide, which did not offer a
  clear view.  It also stank of corruption and swarmed with flies.
* A couple of shafts covered with stone slabs, which appeared to
  descend to some underground tunnels.

You decided to wade through the bodies, following the two people, to
reduce the risk of being caught unawares if you used a different
entrance.  Larkin feigned his illness acting up to avoid going in, but
when confronted confessed that he suffered claustrophobia, and didn't
realise just what it would be like at the pyramid.  Jason Steele
stayed with Larkin while the rest of you descended.

Wandering the narrow tunnels, you found a room full of shiny trinkets
from all ages: coins, jewellery, watches, cutlery, and so on; gathered
and piled up with no apparent organisation.  You also saw the two
people from earlier, fast asleep on filthy mats on the floor.  They
were thin, unnaturally so, but didn't appear to be suffering for it.

You tried to bind the two people, a man and a woman, without waking
them up.  You succeeded with the man, but the woman woke up, but you
managed to subdue her.  You tried questioning her, but got no answer.
You tried giving her food, which she ate, but not with the reckless
abandon you would expect from a victim of starvation.  Leaving them
behind, you continued to explore the tunnels.

You arrived at the buried walls of the pyramid, which had a
familiar-looking golden band embedded into them.  You followed the
band, and reached a point where it had been torn away.  There was a
crack along the wall from the floor to the ceiling, and a hole in the
floor which had filled with a rank-smelling white liquid.  Lady
Ashdown saw rippling in the pool, as if something were moving beneath
the surface.

Dr. Crane lowered a sample container into the pool, and the ripples
surged towards it.  He withdrew the container and examined the
contents, but without much insight.  He tried setting it alight, and
it burst into flames with such a violence he started and dropped the
flaming container into the pool, setting the whole thing alight.
Black smoke billowed into the tunnel.  Jackson Elias dropped to the
ground, and to fresh air, dragging Wilhelmina with him; but the rest
of you inhaled the smoke and collapsed unconscious.

On the surface, Jason Steele saw the smoke emerging, and tried to move
one of the stone slabs covering the shafts, to let the smoke escape
more rapidly.  As he was struggling with that, he heard footsteps from
behind.  He turned, and it was Larkin, but not Larkin as you knew him.
This Larkin stood straight and tall, with no sign of his usual
illness, and his eyes were totally black.  Jason Steele felt his mind
go blank as Larkin said "you will go into the pyramid and destroy the
golden seal."

Jason climbed down into the tunnels, touching the golden band.  He
briefly fought to overcome this compulsion upon him, but could not.
He struck the band with a crowbar, creating a new crack.  A brief
earthquake shook the ground.

Lady Ashdown, Dr. Crane, and Prof. Musgrave regained consciousness
just in time to see Jason Steele strike the band and feel the ground
shake.  "What have you done," Prof. Musgrave cried, and Jason Steele
babbled for a few moments about Larkin.

You decided to try repairing the golden band with the gold in the
other room, as the band was set into the wall of the pyramid, so it
was clear where gold needed to be.  Prof. Musgrave hammered the golden
mirror he found in Luis de Mendoza's room into the cavity in the wall.
You all then turned to go fetch more gold to finish the repair, and
were confronted by Luis de Mendoza, seemingly back from the dead.

"Destroy the seal," he said, the first words you had heard him speak.
He had a gun aimed at you.  When you didn't cooperate, he shot
Prof. Musgrave, who failed to dodge, and lay on the ground bleeding
heavily.  Jason Steele shot Mendoza twice with his shotgun, inflicting
a terrible wound, and knocking him back onto the ground, apparently
dead once more.  The horror of what you all just witnessed began to
sink in: a dead man came back to kill you.  Dr. Crane picked the
bullet out of Prof. Musgrave and bandaged him up.  Prof. Musgrave
gained a nascent phobia of bullets.

<aside class="highlight">
Musgrave gains ballistophobia.
</aside>

You quickly fetched more gold and continued the repair, but nothing
seemed to happen.  Jason Steele decided to pick up Mendoza's body and
see if the seal burned it, like the fragment of seal in the university
storage room did.  But as he picked up Mendoza, the body crumbled away
into dust.  You dashed back to the room with the two people in, and
saw that the man had also turned to dust.  The woman was still alive,
but looked incredibly feeble, and seemed to worsen before your very
eyes.  She seemed confused and afraid, asking what was happening.
Prof. Musgrave offered her some food, but as she reached out her arm
to take it, she fell back dead.

Jason Steele and Prof. Musgrave came out onto the surface to find
Larkin sitting down, looking very feeble, with no sign of the power
which had filled him before.  He told you that he had come to this
pyramid once before, with some locals, and that he didn't really
remember what happened.  He found himself back in Lima, with a
compulsion to find some people to take to the pyramid and destroy the
golden seal.  He couldn't do it himself, it repelled the power within
him.  This is where you, and his expedition, came in.

You then lowered a rope down one of the shafts for the rest of you to
climb out.  Jackson Elias carried a bag full of golden coins, and said
sheepishly "well, this is why we came, right?"

Then we had a time skip to everyone parting ways at the port in Lima.

None of you seemed particularly sad to be leaving Peru, and a few of
you said you'd hope to never cross paths with Larkin again.  Larkin
said that he was just glad everyone survived this expedition, and that
he hoped nothing like this would ever happen again.  Jason Steele and
Dr. Crane realised Larkin was lying; but the point of no return had
been passed, and they couldn't turn back to confront him.

### End

This is the end of this chapter.  Bonus sanity points are:

- `+1d6` for killing Luis de Mendoza.
- `+1d8` for restoring the ward on the pyramid.

The next chapter is after a four-year time skip.  We'll start with a
brief character-tweaking phase where I'll award some bonus skill
points.


America session 1, 2018-11-24
-----------------------------

It's 1925, four years after the events of Peru, and you have all
received a message from Jackson Elias saying that he's uncovered new
information about the Carlyle Expedition, and needed a reliable team
of investigators to help him.

The Carlyle Expedition of 1919 was an archaeological expedition to
Egypt funded by wealthy playboy Roger Carlyle.  The expedition
primaries were:

- **Roger Carlyle** - wealthy playboy.

- **Sir Aubrey Penhew** - renowned Egyptologist and founder of the
  Penhew Foundation in London.

- **Dr. Robert Huston** - a fashionable Freudian psychologist, on the
  expedition to conduct research into ancient pictographs.

- **Hypatia Masters** - a socialite acting as photographer and
  archivist.

- **Jack Brady** - Rodger Carlyle's loyal bodyguard and manservant.

After Egypt, the expedition went to Nairobi, to unwind on a safari.
That was the last time the expedition members were seen alive.  Two
months after their disappearance, Erica Carlyle, the sister of Roger
Carlyle, arrived in Nairobi with an expedition of her own: to find her
brother.  The remains of the Carlyle Expedition were found, massacred
by tribesmen, who were executed for their crimes.

This was all over the newspapers of the time, and it was thought to be
a settled issue.  Jackson Elias finding new information is quite a
surprise.

### 15th of January, 1925

On the morning of the 15th of January, the day Jackson Elias asked to
see you all, you all made your way to Prospero House, Jackson's
publisher, to ask about his whereabouts, as his message was
nonspecific.  There you were reunited with Wilhelmina, who has moved
to New York and is working there as a secretary.

You met Jonah Kensington, the owner of Prospero House and Jackson's
friend, who told you that Jackson is staying in room 410 of the Hotel
Chelsea.  You made your way to the Hotel Chelsea and were directed to
room 410 by a man at the reception desk.

Upon arriving at room 410, you found the door locked, and no answer to
your knocking.  You noticed some workmen on the fire escape outside,
and asked if they'd seen a man matching Jackson's description leave,
but they irritably brushed you off and returned to work.  Wilhelmina
investigated the possibility of climbing down to the fire escape
outside Jackoson's room from the floor above.  Jason Steele picked the
lock.

Inside room 410 you found your good friend Jackson Elias, sprawled
over a large chair, eviscerated and with a symbol carved into his
forehead.  Prof. Musgrave screamed, and ran back down to the
reception.  The window was open, and the fire escape visible beyond.
Items were scattered around the room.  Dr. Crane determined that the
murder had been done recently, in the last few hours.

The room contained a telephone, and you called the police.  The
receptionist downstairs also called the police.  While waiting for the
police to arrive, you looked around, and found a few items:

- A business card for Edward Gavigan, director of the London-based
  Penhew Foundation.

- A business card for Emerson Imports, with the name "Silas N'Kwane"
  written on the back in Jackson's hand.

- A handbill for a public lecture at New York University entitled "The
  Cult of Darkness in Polynesia & The Southwest Pacific", by
  Prof. Anthony Cowley of the University of Sydney, currently a
  visiting professor at Miskatonic University.

Jason Steele got in touch with his friend Chester Sullivan, an agency
detective.  He arrived at around the same time as two police officers,
who treated him with a professional respect and let him perform his
investigation in tandem with their own.

One of the officers made a phone call to Lt. Poole, saying that the
murder was the same as the ones in the Hilton Adams case of last year.
About 45 minutes later, Lt. Poole arrived, and sent Chester Sullivan
away.  Lt. Poole asked you about your connection to Jackson Elias.  He
was satisfied by your answers, and when you asked about the Hilton
Adams case held nothing back.

A string of similar murders, where the victims all had the same symbol
carved into their forehead, had occurred last year.  Lt. Poole was
looking into the case, but had no leads.  There was no connection
between the victims: rich and poor, black and white.  Captain Robson
insisted that the case be transferred to him, which it was, and he
quickly closed the case when he found Hilton Adams at the scene of one
such murder.  Hilton Adams was convicted with only circumstantial
evidence, and Lt. Poole suspects that Captain Robson had been bribed
to shut down the case.  Given the diversity of victims, Lt. Poole
suspects that they are all people who learned too much about some
secret.

Lt. Poole gave you his contact details, and said he would be in touch
if necessary.  You then left the scene.  Wilhelmina decided to go back
to Prospero House to inform Jonah Kensington of the death; the rest of
you decided to go to Emerson Imports to ask about Silas N'Kwane.

Jonah was shocked by the revelation, and immediately contacted Carlton
Ramsey, Jackson's lawyer, to arrange an urgent meeting.  Wilhelmina
tagged along.

By the time Jonah and Wilhelmina arrived at Carlton Ramsey's office,
he had been informed by the police of Jackson's death.  After
discussing the arrangements for the funeral the next day, Carlton
turned to Wilhelmina and asked if she and Jackson's other friends
could see him after the funeral for the reading of the will.
Wilhelmina agreed, and asked if they knew anything about Jackson's
recent work; they did, but thought it best to wait until tomorrow.
Wilhelmina also asked about Prof. Anthony Cowles, but they didn't know
the man.

Wilhelmina then headed to New York University to enquire about the
lecture.

At Emerson Imports you met Arthur Emerson, who made a sour expression
when you brought up Silas N'Kwane.  He said that Silas didn't work for
him, that he was a customer who used Emerson Imports to import African
trinkets for his shop.  Something about N'Kwane made Emerson's skin
crawl; he doesn't like the man.  He gave you the address of Ju-Ju
House, N'Kwane's shop.

Ju-Ju House is a very small shop, full of African trinkets, souvenirs,
display weapons, and so on.  The aged proprietor, Silas N'Kwane, said
he didn't know a Jackson Elias.  You determined that he wasn't being
entirely truthful, but he persisted in his claim.  He suggested that
maybe Jackson Elias had got his name from Mr. Emerson, but had never
come to the shop.  To get on his good side, Prof. Musgrave bought a
wooden animal, which seemed to improve Silas' opinion of you.

You then all headed to New York University as well.

At the university, you all reunited at the reception.  The lecture was
last week, and Prof. Cowles had since returned to Arkham.  You then
went to the anthropology department, on the hunch that if anyone
attended a talk about cults it was probably them, and Jason Steele
stopped people until he found a timid graduate student willing to
summarise the lecture.

The lecture was about the Cult of the Sand Bat, once widespread
amongst Australian Aborigines.  This cult worshipped a being known as
the Sand Bat, or the Father of All Bats, and partook in human
sacrifice.  They believed that by sacrificing, they would become
worthy for their god, who would appear to the world and conquer it,
turning it into a paradise for the cult.  There was also a legend that
the Sand Bat had a battle with the Rainbow Snake, another aboriginal
god---the deification of water and life---who tricked the Sand Bat,
and sealed it and all his clan in a watery place from which the Sand
Bat cannot escape.

### 16th of January, 1925

You saw an article in the New York Times about the similarity of
Jackson Elias' murder and the crimes for which Hilton Adams had been
arrested, who was at this time on death row.  The author was Rebecca
Shosenburg.

In the afternoon you went to the funeral.  It was a brief,
non-denominational, and poorly attended ceremony.  Only you, the
priest, Carlton Ramsey, his niece, and Jonah Kensington were there.
Outside the cemetery, some reporters watched.  After the ceremony
concluded, you left with Carlton to go to his office.  As you walked
by the reporters, one pushed to the front and introduced herself as
Rebecca Shosenburg, asking if you had any opinions on the similarity
of this murder to the Hilton Adams case.  You brushed her off and
continued to the office.

At the office, Carlton offered you some bootleg bourbon before the
reading of the will.  He said that Jackson had been by the day before
his death to update his will.  Jackson hadn't said anything, but
Carlton believed that Jackson was afraid, and wanted to prepare for
the worst.

The key points of the will are: that Elias has given full power of
attorney to Carlton, with complete authority to liquidate his assets;
that Carlton is to use these assets to create and manage a fund to
continue Jackson's investigation; and that you, named in the will, are
the preferred people to carry on this investigation.  Carlton is also
to act as a central point of contact, and a recruiter if people with
specialised skills, or new investigators, are required.

Jackson left a note, to be read in the event of his death, which
encouraged you to continue his investigation and find his killers.
Jackson had also left some of his papers:

- A letter, dated 1919 and sent from Cairo, from a M. Warren Besart to
  Roger Carlyle.

- A blurry photograph showing some boats in the foreground and
  buildings in the background.

- A letter to Jackson Elias from Miriam Atwright at the Harvard
  University Library.

You all agreed to join the quest and continue in Jackson's footsteps.


America session 2, 2018-12-08
-----------------------------

### 17th of January, 1925

You visited Prospero House to ask Jonah Kensington for Jackson Elias'
book notes.  There was a letter, sent from Nairobi, saying that while
the authorities denied the cult aspect of the Carlyle massacre, the
locals thought differently.  With the letter was a bundle of notes.
The notes revealed that the bodies had been found in an area shunned
by the local tribes, who said it was cursed by the God of the Black
Wind, revered by the Cult of the Bloody Tongue.  The bodies had been
torn apart and, contrary to the official report, only included the
Kenyan bearers from the Carlyle party.

Jason Steele noticed that Jonah held back some papers, and persuaded
him to share them.  More notes by Jackson, but in messy handwriting
and very rambling.  These notes talked about dreams---"dreams like
Carlyle's?"---and say that "many names, many forms" are all working
towards one end, to "open the gate".  The notes also say "the books
are in Carlyle's safe..."

You then used Jonah's office phone to make some calls.  Firstly you
rang Miskatonic University, hoping to talk to Prof. Cowles about his
recent lecture.  He was unavailable, but you arranged for the
receptionist to contact Carlton Ramsey when she knew when Prof. Cowles
would be available to talk.  You also rang Harvard University Library
to talk with Miriam Atwright, about the book Jackson was looking for.
The book disappeared from the library, leaving behind only a terrible
smell of decay, and the police haven't found any leads yet.

You then decided to investigate the principals of the Carlyle
Expedition.

Dr. Crane went to the archives of the New York City Medical Affairs
Board, and managed to talk his way by the security guard.  He found
Dr. Robert Huston's notes about Roger Carlyle.  The notes say that
Roger was referred by his sister, Erica, to discuss his dreams.

Roger dreams of being called by a voice through the mist.  He follows
the voice, and finds a tall dark man with an inverted ankh blazing
upon his forehead.  The man reveals his palms, Roger's face is in one,
a misshapen pyramid is in the other.  The hands are brought together,
and Roger finds himself propelled into space.  He sees an array of
monstrous creatures, all circling a ball of energy which Roger
recognises as another aspect of the calling man.  Roger is drawn into
the ball, and a misshapen triangle appears in the void.  The creatures
rush into the triangle as the voice says "and become with me a god"
and Roger awakes.  Roger has no waking interest in anything Egyptian.
He also does not consider this a nightmare, and that he feels it is a
genuine calling.

Notes about later sessions are briefer.  Roger talks about someone
called M'Weru, who he calls "my priestess" and devotes himself to.  In
the final session, Huston says "if I do not go, C. threatens
exposure."

You decided to pay a visit to the Carlyle mansion, which lies to the
north of New York City.  You parked the car out of sight and peeked
in: a tall three-storey building with acres of surrounding grounds,
and a tall fence with a single guarded entrance.  You decided not to
try to sneak in and rob the safe.

### 18th of January, 1925

You visited Hilton Adams, arrested for the previous murders, in Sing
Sing Prison.  You got half an hour to speak with him.

Hilton Adams was a community leader of sorts, who grew concerned with
the murders and decided to take matters into his own hands.  He found
that the murders fanned out in a rough circle for about a mile west of
the Harlem River; but none within a two block radius of West 137th
Street, between Lenox Avenue and the Harlem River[^jan18_1]---except
the one which had him arrested.  A Dr. Mordecai Lemming had been
quoted in the papers saying the murders seemed similar to those
conducted by the Cult of the Bloody Tongue, an African death cult.  As
Ju-Ju House is the only thing African in the vicinity, Hilton staked
it out.  One day he managed to follow a muscular, shaven, African man
in his late 30s from Ju-Ju House to a coffee shop on 139th Street and
Sixth Avenue.  Nobody seemed keen to talk about this man, just saying
that he was Mukunga M'Dari, and he was bad news.  Shortly after that,
Hilton's knife was found at the scene of a murder, on a night Hilton
had gone out patrolling.  This caused his arrest.  But that night
Hilton says he went out with his gun.

[^jan18_1]: This is roughly the same location as the Ju-Ju House,
  which you previously visited.  Ju-Ju House is at 1 Ransom Court,
  down an alley off West 137th Street, east of Lenox Avenue.

When you returned from Sing Sing, you managed to get a phone call with
Prof. Cowles, who gave you a full summary of his lecture.  The
graduate student you talked to previously covered most of it,
Prof. Cowles additionally described some photos from his slides: each
of sweating men standing beside enormous blocks of stone, pitted and
eroded, but clearly formed for architectural purposes.  Cowles says
that the discovered, a Arthur MacWhirr of Port Hedland, Australia,
kept a diary in which he recorded several attacks on the party by
Aboriginals, and records deaths to victims from hundreds of small
punctures, reminiscent of the bat cult.

You then wanted to learn some more about Erica Carlyle, so you went to
the New York Public Library to look through its newspaper archives.
Outside, you bought today's newspaper, and found mention that the
Carlyle munitions business had become the biggest in the state, due to
the careful management of Erica Carlyle and her lawyer, Bradley Grey.
Grey is a partner in one of the top law firms in New York, but was
described as almost a personal assistant to Erica.

After debating a few ways of getting in touch with Erica Carlyle and
being invited into the mansion, you decided to send her a letter
saying that you were reopening the investigation into her brother
Roger and his ill-fated expedition.

You then went into the newspaper archives to try to find out some
information about Hypatia Masters, as there seemed no obvious reason
why a socialite would go on the expedition.  You found a mention, some
months before the expedition, that she and Roger had begun dating.


America session 3, 2019-01-19
-----------------------------

### 22nd of January, 1925

You received a rather cold reply from Bradley Grey to your letter to
Erica Carlyle about re-opening the investigation into the Carlyle
Expedition.  He made it clear that you would have to convince him
there was some merit to your investigation before he would arrange a
meeting with Erica.  You got in touch with Bradley Grey's assistant to
arrange a meeting.  He had thought you might, and left a spot free in
his calendar the next day.

### 23rd of Janaury, 1925

At the meeting, Jason Steele (everyone but Wilhelmina attended), tried
to convince Bradley Grey by explaining how Jackson Elias had been
looking into the Carlyle Expedition when he was murdered.  Bradley
Grey was initially unconvinced, but was impressed enough by
Prof. Musgrave's credentials to accept that you probably weren't just
trying to make some money off of the Carlyle family.  He arranged a
meeting with Erica and also told you a little about the Carlyle
Expedition principles:

- Roger Carlyle had a poor reputation amongst the investors, and the
  company's fortunes have picked up since Erica took over.

- Hypatia Masters was a socialite from a wealthy family who dated
  Roger, she was known amongst amateur circles as a skilled
  photographer.

- Jack "Brass" Brady, Roger's bodyguard and manservant, was a
  condemned man saved by Roger's lawyers, who became incredibly
  devoted and loyal to his saviour.

- He only knew Sir Aubrey Penhew by reputation, and that Dr. Robert
  Huston was a psychoanalysist favoured by Erica Carlyle.

### 25th of January, 1925

You returned to the Carlyle estate, this time not hiding your car
behind a hill, and were ushered into a reception hall to meet Erica
Carlyle.  After introductions, she led you to a sitting room and you
talked about Roger.

She told you that Roger had been having bad dreams for several months
before the expedition, waking screaming.  He refused to discuss these
dreams, and eventually Erica referred him to Dr. Huston.  A month or
so after the dreams began, Roger became involved with "that Negro
woman, Bunay".  Erica doesn't know who this Bunay is, but Roger became
increasingly obsessed with her, describing her as "queenly", and "a
priestess".  Roger began to disappear for days at a time, saying only
that he had been to Harlem on his return.  Bunay had accompanied the
expedition.

You then asked about the books in the safe.  Erica was unable to hide
her surprise, saying that Roger had spent a lot of time pouring over
old books in the months leading up to the expedition.  Roger had hid
the books in a safe, and not even told Erica about them, so she was
surprised that you knew.  You convinced her to show you the books, and
she summoned a guard and took you to the library.

You waited outside while she fetched the books.  When you went in,
there were four books arranged on a table, and no sign of a safe.  The
books were:

- **The Pnakotic Manuscripts** - centuries old and written in English.

- **Selections de Livre D'Ivon** - centuries old and written in a
  language none of you recognised (French).

- **Amongst the Stones** - fairly recent, English, handwritten, and
  bound in some sort of skin.

- **Life As A God** - fairly recent, English, and bound in human skin.

Over the next few hours Prof. Musgrave read *Amongst the Stones* and
Lady Ashdown read *Life As A God* (after Wilhelmina tried and failed).
*Amongst the Stones* is a collection of poetry, and one stood out.  It
was about the regal garments of Queen Nitocris of Egypt, in great
detail.  *Life As A God* is the diary of English artist Montgomery
Crompton, who went to Egypt in 1805 and became a priest of the
Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh.  Crompton was insane when he wrote
the diary.  It describes unspeakable acts committed in the name of the
Black Pharaoh, and the hidden throne room of Bent Pyramid.

By the time you finished reading, Erica Carlyle had left, and the
guard politely suggested that you would be overstaying your welcome if
you remained any longer.  You took the hint and left.

### 26th of January, 1925

Jason Steele decided to stake out Ju-Ju House, and Wilhelmina the cafe
mentioned by Hilton Adams.  In the mid-morning, Jason saw a white man
poorly concealing a gun beneath his jacket enter the Ju-Ju House.  The
man left a few minutes later stuffing an envelope into his inside
pocket.  Jason followed the man to a nearby police station, and
watched for a while, but the man did not come out.  Jason peered
through the windows, and was seen; but managed to outrun the police.
The only thing of note to happen at the cafe is that Silas N'Kwane,
owner of Ju-Ju House, went for lunch.

### 27th of January, 1925

You continued your stake-outs.  In mid-afternoon, a man matching
Mukunga M'Dari's description paid a short visit to the Ju-Ju House,
and then headed in the direction of the cafe.  Jason followed.  The
man arrived at the cafe, and a few minutes later Jason also entered.
Jason got the attention of Wilhelmina and indicated to Mukunga M'Dari.
Mukunga spoke quietly to a waiter, and was led through a door.

Wilhelmina got the attention of a waiter and asked what was through
the door.  The waiter judged that she was not with the police, and
seemed a trustworthy sort, so he told her that it is the door to a
speakeasy.  Wilhelmina went through the door, which took her to a
staircase leading down to the basement.

At this time of day the speakeasy was not particularly busy, but it
had a fair few customers.  Mukunga M'Dari was sitting by himself with
his drink.  Wilhelmina asked the bartender who he (Mukunga) was, and
learned that he has a bad reputation.  He has no apparent employment,
but always has money; he seems to be friendly with the police; and
people don't like to mess with him.  Wilhelmina finished her drink and
left, collecting Jason from the cafe.


America session 4, 2019-02-10
-----------------------------

### 27th of January, 1925

You decided to break in to the Ju-Ju House[^jan27_1], so Jason and
Wilhelmina arrived around closing time and watched the shop for a few
hours.

[^jan27_1]: Because I mentioned that I assumed were going to do that,
  and you all thought it was a reasonable enough idea.

### 28th of January, 1925 (midnight)

A little after midnight, a light was still on inside, though the
curtains were drawn across the shop window so you couldn't see in.
Jason peered through the keyhole, and saw Silas N'Kwane bent over
something behind the counter.

Wilhelmina found a back door down an alley, and Jason picked the lock.
You cautiously entered a small dark room, separated from the shopfront
by a thick curtain, and which looked like Silas N'Kwane's living
quarters.  Wilhelmina looked through the curtain and saw Silas opening
a trap door behind the counter.  He heard the curtain move and looked
up, but did not see Wilhelmina.  He entered the back room, but Jason
managed to hide in a closet in time.  Wilhelmina lead Silas out of the
back door, giving Jason enough time to enter the shopfront, and
descend the stairs beneath the open trap door.

Jason entered a large basement, running under the entire building.  At
one end was a large well with a stone cover, about 2 metres in
diameter.  Half way along the wall opposite the entrance was a curtain
covering an alcove.  It was completely silent.

Jason approached the curtain, and peered beneath it.  Inside the
alcove were four pairs of standing bare feet, two along the wall to
the left and two along the wall to the right.  These looked like the
feet of living people, rather than a statue or something like that,
but still there was no noise.

Jason slowly and quietly got to his feet, grasped the curtain in one
hand and a camera in the other.  He dramatically whisked the curtain
aside, to reveal four people, their foreheads branded with the same
symbol as Jackson Elias, their intestines spilling out of open wounds,
their skin decaying, and their eyes completely black.  Their heads
snapped to the side to look at Jason, who took a photo and ran.  They
leaped after him, but he got to the stairs, and they would not follow
out of the basement.

Jason climbed the stairs, to be faced with Silas N'Kwane.  Jason
managed to shove him out of the way, climbed over the counter, and
jumped through the front window, being wounded a little by broken
glass in the process.  Wilhelmina had brought the car around, and they
escaped to Jason's office.  Jason developed the photo in his darkroom,
pacing impatiently while waiting for it to process.  In the early
morning, the photo was ready.  Jason called everyone around, along
with Lt. Poole, who came to investigate Jackson Elias' murder, and
shared the photo.

Lt. Poole shakily asked where the photo was taken, and commented that
that was Captain Robson's territory.  Captain Robson is the one who
arrested Hilton Adams for the previous murders.  Lt. Poole called a
squad of officers to go visit the Ju-Ju House.

You all, except Wilhelmina who was still sleeping, arrived at the
Ju-Ju House with police backup.  Lt. Poole took command of the
situation, taking Silas N'Kwane into custody and demanding access to
the basement.  Silas looked surprised and briefly annoyed---as if he
didn't expect the police, of all people, to do this---before changing
his demeanour to meek submission.  The trap door was revealed beneath
a rug, and you all descended.  Prof. Musgrave stayed outside, due to
his ballistophobia.

In the basement was Mukunga M'Dari, surrounded by the four people.
Several of you gasped at the sight.  Dr. Crane attempted to
rationalise the situation by saying that they must be victims of
torture, probably drugged which is why they can stand and move around
at all with those wounds, but others were less convinced.  Lt. Poole
shouted for everyone to put their hands where he could see them and
not to make any sudden moves.  Mukunga complied, the four didn't move.

One of the officers approached the four, and put his hand on their
shoulder to guide them down to the floor.  As soon as he made physical
contact, the person spun around and snapped the officer's arm in two
with incredible speed.  The other three adopted fighting postures, and
all moved between Mukunga and the police.  The wounded man passed out
due to the pain and was carried to the back of the room, where
Dr. Crane treated him.  Dr. Crane and Clarissa carried him out while
the police opened fire.  The four people seemed unaffected by the
bullets, being knocked back but otherwise not appearing to suffer from
the onslaught.  They shielded Mukunga, who was hiding behind them
still.

Jason realised he still had some dynamite[^jan28_1], and decided to
use it.  He threw it, but fumbled his grip a little, and hit one of
the officers.  The dynamite fell in the middle of the room.  You and
all but one of the police managed to escape from the basement before
it exploded.

[^jan28_1]: From Peru.

As the explosion ripped through the basement, there was suddenly a
sound of dozens of voices---far more than there had been in the
basement---wailing in agony.  Jason and Dr. Crane returned to the
basement and cautiously entered.  Mukunga and the four people had been
torn apart by the dynamite.  The stone seal over the well had been
cracked open, and the noise was coming from there.  Thinking it might
be more torture victims, Dr. Crane approached.

In the well Dr. Crane saw a great writhing mass of tentacles, or
perhaps worms, covered in screaming human faces.  In a bout of
madness, he threw up and ran, screaming, from the basement.  He made
it past the surprised officers in the shopfront, and was only caught
outside.  Seeing what had happened, Jason decided not to approach the
well.

Jason investigated the alcove, as the photo he took showed a
bulky-looking bag, and found:

- A cloth headdress with a severed human tongue attached to the front.

- A robe made of feathers.

- The book **Africa's Dark Sects**, which Jackson Elias was looking
  for at Harvard University Library.  The book details Nigel
  Blackwell's travels across Africa and the cults he encountered on
  the way, including a description in great detail of a cult summoning
  the monster they worship.  It contains one spell, and will take
  several weeks to study fully.

- A woven wooden mask, like a woven basket, but with no eyeholes.  On
  the top of the mask are four monstrous faces, at right angles to
  each other.  Prof. Musgrave identified the mask being possibly from
  the Congo.

- A wooden sceptre carved with hieroglyphics saying "Nyambe, Thy Power
  Mine".  From the context, Nyambe is a given name, but not one any of
  you are familiar with.

- A marine chronometer, a very accurate clock used by sailors to
  calculate their position.  It was set to GMT, rather than local
  time.

Jason managed to persuade Lt. Poole that there was enough evidence
left at the Ju-Ju House for him to conduct an investigation, and to
overturn the conviction of Hilton Adams, and he allowed you to take
the items from the alcove.

Having exhausted the trail in New York, you decided to follow an
earlier lead to the Penhew Foundation, and set sail for London.  The
crossing took 9 days, during which you attempted to rest and to
recover some of your sanity.

### End

This is the end of this chapter. Bonus sanity points are:

- `+1d6` for effectively solving Jackson Elias' murder.
- `+1d4` for finding enough evidence to get Hilton Adams off death
  row.
- `+1d6` for neutralising Mukunga M'Dari.
- `+1d4` for breaking up the cult.

The next chapter will begin with you arriving in England.


England session 1, 2019-03-16
-----------------------------

It's been nine uneventful days at sea since you departed New York, and
now Southampton is in sight.  From there you can catch a train to
London, at the time the heart of the British Empire, the greatest city
in the world, and famous for its incredibly thick fogs.

You came to London following two leads:

- The Carlyle Expedition, which briefly stopped over in London and
  picked up the Egyptologist Sir Aubrey Penhew, founder of the Penhew
  Foundation.

- And Jackson Elias, who had a business card for Edward Gavigan, the
  current director of the Penhew Foundation, in his hotel room.

Before we get into the game, I'd like to bring up some mechanics, and
also talk about some backstories.

Firstly, Dr. Carson Crane is indefinitely insane.  This means that
losing even one point of sanity will cause him to suffer a bout of
madness, and also he can have sensory hallucinations at any time.  You
can take sanity damage from hallucinating a mythos creature.  Luke, if
you think Dr. Crane is hallucinating, there are two things you can do:

- You can make a Reality Check roll, which is a Sanity roll.  If you
  succeed you see through the delusion, and can't have any more until
  you take some sanity damage.  If you fail, you take one point of
  sanity damage and suffer a bout of madness.

- Or you can make a Psychoanalysis roll.  If you succeed, you see
  through the delusion.

The only way to recover from indefinite insanity is to spend months in
an asylum recuperating.

Secondly, there's a mechanic I forgot about.  If an investigator
suffers insanity from a mythos source, they gain one point of Cthulhu
Mythos, or five points the first time.  I've given you all an extra
eight points of Cthulhu Mythos, which probably covers it.

Now, backstories.

Lady Clarissa Ashdown, it's a bit unusual to be a Lady in your own
right at such a young age.  Normally your mother would be "Lady
Ashdown" by virtue of being married to Lord Ashdown.  Are you actually
a lady, or do you just call yourself that because you have noble
parents?  What's your family situation like?[^england0_1]

[^england0_1]: Possible follow ups depending on the answer: Is Lord
  Ashdown a member of the House of Lords?  Where are the Ashdowns
  based?

Professor Musgrave, you must know of the Penhew Foundation, unless
you've spent your entire academic career under a rock.  You certainly
know that it was established in 1890 by Sir Aubrey Penhew who, as
director of the Foundation, funded and oversaw several expeditions to
Egypt.  When Sir Aubrey was presumed dead after the massacre of the
Carlyle Expedition, Edward Gavigan became director.  The Foundation
issues grants to scholars undertaking the study of Egyptian history
and antiquities.  It also helps out with planning and funding
expeditions, negotiating permits with Egyptian authorities, hiring
local labour, et cetera.  The Foundation building itself is partly
offices, partly museum.  Have you been on an expedition supported by
the Penhew Foundation?[^england0_2]

[^england0_2]: Possible follow up depending on the answer: Do you have
  a research membership to the Penhew Foundation?

Now, before you all disembark, there's one more thing.  Firearms are
illegal in England at this time unless you have a permit, except
shotguns which are considered weapons for hunting game.  Everyone who
is bringing a gun into the country make a Luck roll now.

### 10th of February, 1925

You arrived in Southampton, ready to begin the next leg of your
adventure.

Prof. Musgrave, who has had dealings with the Penhew Foundation and
Edward Gavigan before, rang the Foundation to arrange an interview.
Thomas Kinnery, Edward Gavigan's personal secretary, arranged a
meeting for the following day, in the late morning.

You then hopped aboard a train, which took you to London in about six
hours.  You spent the rest of the day sorting out your accommodation,
finding a regular meeting place to discuss the events of each day, and
planning the next day.

### 11th of February, 1925

Wilhelmina decided not to accompany you to the interview with Edward
Gavigan, and went to look through newspaper archives for any new
information relating to the Carlyle Expedition.

The rest of you went to the Penhew Foundation and were greeted by
Thomas Kinnery.  He took you to an anteroom outside Edward Gavigan's
office, where you took seats, and he returned to work.  Jason Steele
got up to examine the room, which was decorated with Egyptian scrolls,
and some information about the Foundation's previous expeditions.

After a few minutes, Edward Gavigan emerged from his office, and
greeted Prof. Musgrave like an old friend before ushering you all in.
The office itself was quite bare, there were chairs, a desk with a
photo facing away from you, a cupboard against one wall, and a floor
safe in one corner of the room, its door ajar.

Prof. Musgrave trusts Edward Gavigan, and so told him the story so far
(if a little abridged when it came to the more unbelievable
components).  Gavigan confirmed that Jackson Elias, "that journalist
working for The Scoop"[^feb11_1], had come to visit him and ask some
questions about the work of the Foundation.  Gavigan had been pleased
to talk about the Foundation's role in grant funding and assistance
with travel permits and the like.  It had been a short meeting, and he
had never heard from Jackson Elias again.

[^feb11_1]: You have never heard of The Scoop before, and Jackson
  Elias was not a journalist.  You guessed that this is probably a
  cover story Jackson gave.

You then asked about the Carlyle Expedition.  Gavigan said that Roger
Carlyle had obtained information from "an African woman" about a
shadowy time in Egyptian history where the Nile had been ruled by a
sorcerer.  Sir Aubrey had been interested in this period as well.
Unfortunately, the information turned out to be a hoax, and after
conducting some digs in Egypt, the African woman took off with the
money (some £3500).  The loss of the money bothered Carlyle less than
the defection of his lover, and the party went to Kenya to distract
themselves with hunting and wildlife photography.  There they strayed
into unfortunate territory, and paid for it with their lives.  Sir
Aubrey had kept in touch with the Foundation during the expedition,
even sending some artefacts back before they left for Kenya, but
Gavigan would not show you these telegraphs, saying that they
concerned much of young Carlyle and were of a personal nature, not the
sort of thing which the Foundation could afford "getting into the
gutter press."

Gavigan then showed you some of the artefacts in the exhibition hall,
which Prof. Musgrave greatly enjoyed, but the rest of you less so.
While showing the artefacts, Jason Steele returned to Gavigan's
office, with the excuse that he left his hat behind.  Without much
time to spare, to avoid rousing the suspicions of Kinnery, Jason
quickly looked at the photograph on the desk and in the floor safe.

The photograph was of a three storey country house called "Misr
House".  Upon being told this later, Prof. Musgrave recognised "Misr"
as being Arabic for "Egypt".  The safe contained roughly a hundred £1
notes.

Musgrave spent the rest of the afternoon enjoying the Penhew
Foundation's library, where he found a book mentioning the "Black
Pharaoh", a figure of myth who is said to have ruled during the Third
Dynasty.

While this was going on, Wilhelmina spent the entire day in the
newspaper archives, finding nothing new about the Carlyle Expedition,
but finding an article by The Scoop on the "Egyptian Murders" from
right before Jackson Elias was in London.  The article describes a
series of murders with the victims all severely beaten and stabbed
through the heart.

You then reconvened, and decided the next day to check out The Scoop
and Misr House.

### 12th of February, 1925

Prof. Musgrave decided to go with Jason Steele to investigate Misr
House, mostly to keep an eye on Jason, because he didn't want the man
he introduced to Edward Gavigan as a friend, to be found the next day
breaking into Gavigan's country estate.  You both went to the General
Records Office and found that Misr House was located on a 1000 acre
estate on an island in the Naze, in Essex.  You got on a train to
Colchester, intending to change to a local train to
Walton-on-the-Naze, and hire a car from there.

The rest of you went to the offices of The Scoop, located on the third
floor of a grubby building on Fleet Street.  Mention of Jackson Elias
got you to Mickey Mahoney, owner and editor of The Scoop.  He said he
was a friend of Jackson's, and that any friend of Jackson is a friend
of his.  He said that Jackson had been investigating a cult in the
heart of London, but Jackson hadn't told him the details; he would pay
£15 for the story if you bring it to him.  He also said that Jackson
had been interested in three stories The Scoop had printed (the
Egyptian Murders was one), but he couldn't remember the titles of the
other two off the top of his head, and that you were welcome to look
through the back issues to try to find them.  He didn't know of
anything suspicious about the Carlyle Expedition.

After a couple of hours of finding likely looking articles and asking
"is this one?" you finally found the two others that Jackson Elias had
been interested in:

- **Slaughter Continues!  Reward Offered!** - the Egyptian Murders, a
  series of murders in which all the victims had been killed by severe
  beating, and then stabbed through the heart.  Inspector Barrington
  at New Scotland Yard has been investigating, and Mahoney said that
  Jackson Elias had gone to visit him.

- **Shocking Canvases Craze: Local Artist's Monstrous Scenes Mock
  'Surrealists'** - Miles Shipley, a local artist, has been painting
  very realistic scenes of horror, which are said to be visions of
  another place the artist merely makes visible.

- **Police Baffled By Monstrous Murders!  Killer Beast Shot But Still
  Alive?** - two murders and one wounding in Lesser Edale, Derbyshire,
  which have been attributed to a rabid dog.  Despite the dog being
  shot dead, local residents report a strange beast lurking in the
  area which wails on nights of the full moon.

In the afternoon, Prof. Musgrave and Jason arrive at the island of
Misr House, but are turned away by a guard at the one bridge onto the
island.  He says that this is private property owned by Edward
Gavigan, and you cannot come in.  From the bridge you could see Misr
House, but not much else on the island due to the heavy forestation.
Prof. Musgrave seemed a little smug, asking Jason if he was satisfied
now.  You returned to the village to try to gather some information
about the estate.

In the village pub the landlord, after being encouraged to pour a
third drink "for yourself", told you some of the history of the area.
The land and house had previously been owned by an Egyptologist and
occultist Neville Lloyd-Price.  Rumour has it that he went bankrupt
and had to sell the land to pay his debts, Edward Gavigan was the
buyer.  Neville Lloyd-Price has not been seen since the sale,
effectively disappearing from London society.  The house dates from
the time of Queen Elizabeth, and is rumoured to have a priest hole,
used to hide Catholic priests during the religious purges.  The estate
itself is 6000 acres, with the island being 1000.  The surrounding
land is rented out to farmers.  Edward Gavigan doesn't show himself
much, he visits the house occasionally but it doesn't seem to be his
primary residence.  Everyone knows of him as the land owner, but he is
a fairly distant figure.  You then decided to return to London and
meet up with the others in the evening.

The rest of you decided to visit Miles Shipley, the artist, at his
home in Holbein Mews.  You were greeted at the door by an old woman
who introduced herself as Bertha Shipley, Miles' mother.  Upon saying
you were interested in buying some paintings, she took you in to a
sitting room, and called for Miles while she made some tea.  As soon
as you stepped into the house you were struck with a strong biological
smell, which Wilhelmina recognised as the smell of a reptile house.
Upon asking Bertha about it, she seemed embarrassed that you had
noticed, as if she had not realised how strong it was, and said that
she was looking after a friend's reptiles while they were away.

After a few minutes, you heard Miles clattering down the stairs, and
he entered the room.  A quiet and nervous looking young man, you
spotted that his hands were shaking.  He invited you up to the garret
to see the finished paintings.  He took the lead, Dr. Crane, Clarissa,
and Wilhelmina following, and Bertha Shipley bringing up the rear
carrying teacups.  In the garret room you noticed that Miles glanced
over at Bertha, who seemed completely calm, and in charge of the
situation.  She said that the paintings were £75 to £300 each.  The
paintings were:

- **Ancient Science** - an alchemical lab with a reptilian humanoid
  working at a table surrounded by glass jars emitting colourful
  vapours.

- **The Dark Pharaoh** - a processional scene in which a mass of
  people prostrate themselves before a golden chariot.  Standing atop
  the chariot is a pharaoh in black and gold robes, his face turned
  away from the canvas.  Behind the pharaoh, two men have been impaled
  on stakes, and are being eaten by a pack of jackals.

- **Goat Wood** - a nighttime woodland scene illuminated by a yellow
  moon, naked men and women dancing around a bonfire.  Rising from the
  flames is a goat-headed man with outstretched arms.

- **Drawn in Blood** - a man being cut open by a silver dagger, with
  an occult symbol carved into his chest which you can't quite seem to
  focus on.

- **Black Mountain** - a towering mountain over which rises a
  monstrous demonic creature, its head a great tentacle covered in
  blood[^feb12_1].  In a nearby temple-like building, small human
  figures wearing a headdress with a red tentacle[^feb12_2] lift their
  arms towards it in supplication.

[^feb12_1]: This reminds you of the tattoo on Larkin's chest of the
  man with a spiral emerging from his neck in place of a head.

[^feb12_2]: These look like Mukunga M'Dari's headdress you found at
  the Ju-Ju House.

Miles also showed you a painting he is working on entitled **City of
the Great Race**, which depicted tiny human figures next to a colossal
building, but it was still in early stages.  You examined the
paintings themselves, and the art supplies in the room; everything
looked ordinary, other than the subject matter of the paintings.  When
asked about the newspaper article saying that Miles was painting
visions, Bertha said that the newspapers exaggerate everything, which
Miles agreed with.

You pick out **The Dark Pharaoh**, **Drawn in Blood**, and **Black
Mountain** as paintings you would like to buy, and leave to go to the
bank.

While out of the house, you formulated a plan: Clarissa and Dr. Crane
would distract the Shipleys by haggling, while Wilhelmina would sneak
out of the garret and examine the rest of the house.  When you
returned, you put the plan into action, and Wilhelmina slipped out of
the room.

On the first floor, there are four bedrooms.  Three were open and very
dusty, as if they hadn't been used in a long time.  One was locked,
but through the keyhole Wilhelmina could see it looked messy and in
active use.

On the ground floor, in addition to the corridor, stairs, and sitting
room you had seen, there is also a kitchen (which looked normal), and
a dining room and lounge, both of which looked dusty and unused.
There was no sign of reptiles, beyond the pervasive smell.  In the
garden was a locked cellar door which Wilhelmina could not pick.
Wilhelmina quietly returned to the garret, where the Shipleys were
still distracted.  You then exchanged the money, and left with your
paintings.

As you left the house, Wilhelmina asked what reptiles Bertha was
caring for.  Bertha looked momentarily confused, as if she had
forgotten about the reptiles, and then said snakes.


England session 2, 2019-03-30
-----------------------------

### 12th of February, 1925 (evening)

You discussed the events of the day.  Photos were taken of the symbol
in the **Drawn in Blood** painting, in the hope that a photo might be
easier to focus on.  You then parted ways.  Wilhelmina, suspicious of
Edward Gavigan's refusal to show you the telegraphs from Sir Aubrey
Penhew, decided to go stake out the Foundation, and asked Jason to
join her.  The rest of you went home.

On her way home, Clarissa realised she was being followed, and chased
a man down an alley.  However, he gave her the slip in the thick fog,
and she lost sight of where he went.

Wilhelmina and Jason watched the Penhew Foundation for a few hours,
learning that there is a single night watchman (who patrols
infrequently) and, around the back, a yard large enough for delivery
vehicles, with a visible store room and a coal chute.  You decided to
return the following night and gain entry to the basement through the
chute.

### 13th of February, 1925

You went to see Inspector Barrington at New Scotland Yard about the
Egyptian Murders.  He was able to spare you a little time.  Throughout
the interview he was quite cautious, not giving much away about the
case, and asking about you and your interest.  He said that the press
is calling the murders the "Egyptian Murders" because most of the
victims were Egyptian nationals.  All of the victims are killed by
being beaten and then stabbed through the heart.

Barrington confirmed that he had met Jackson Elias.  Jackson Elias
said he thought the murders were conducted by an Egyptian death cult
known as the Cult of the Black Pharaoh, but due to the lack of
evidence Barrington is not pursuing that particular avenue.
Barrington spoke to the Penhew Foundation, who said that such an
organisation did exist once, but died out centuries ago with no modern
equivalent.

You mentioned that you had dealt with a death cult in New York, and
that such things are not unreasonable.  Barrington seemed unimpressed
by this and quickly drew the interview to a close as you had no leads
for him.

After the interview Wilhelmina and Jason went to buy supplies to break
into the Penhew Foundation that evening (they had still not shared
their plans with Prof. Musgrave at this point).  The rest of you
decided to have the photos of the painting developed and to arrange
transport to Lesser Edale, to investigate the third newspaper article.

The developed photos proved just as hard to focus on as the original
painting, but Prof. Musgrave really concentrated, and realised that it
was actually two overlapping symbols, which tricked the eye.  The
symbols were:

- An inverted ankh:

  ```asciiart
    |
    |
  --+--
   / \
   \_/
    |
  ```

- A circle with two lines coming off it, like wings:

  ```asciiart
  __     __
   _\   /_
     \_/
     / \
     \_/
  ```

After sunset Wilhelmina and Jason returned to the rear of the Penhew
Foundation.  Jason managed to force the padlock on the back gate,
without breaking it, and you entered the yard.  In the yard Jason
noticed an air intake vent, going underground, at the opposite side of
the building to the coal chute.

You descended the coal chute using a rope tied to a grappling hook,
and found yourselves in a pile of coal.  Using flashlights you could
see that you are in a large basement, approximately half as wide as
the building (though not wide enough to include the air intake vent)
with a low wall separating the coal heap from the main basement, which
contained the boiler.  After stepping over the low wall you could see
an elevator and a staircase up into the main building, and a door.

You listened at the door, and couldn't hear anything.  You opened it
cautiously, and found a storage room full of crates.  The discovered
basement now consisted of an L shape:

```asciiart
 ________
|     .  |
|     .  |
|     ...|
|        |
|        |_______
|        |       |
|                |
|________|_______|
```

The air vent suggested an underground room in the missing area, but
there were no more doors.  You tried to look behind crates against the
back wall of the storage room, but they were flush against the wall.
Quietly, to not alert the night watchman in the rooms above, you moved
some crates.  This revealed a door.

You listened at the door and, again, couldn't hear anything.  However,
this time you were certain that the room was empty.  You opened the
door.

Inside the room your flashlights played over a collection of
unexpected items: high quality furniture, evidently well cared for and
used; strange paintings; books, crates, and an ornate chest.  The air
vent was visible at the far end of the room, as was a ladder into the
main building.

Examining everything in the room, you found:

- A .32 revolver and a box of bullets.
- Several passports, for various genders and nationalities.  None of
  the faces or names were familiar.
- Bundles of five- and ten-pound notes, totalling thousands of pounds.
- A receipt for the rental of a cast iron safe from Ernest Whitfield &
  Co, Birmingham to Henson Manufacturing, Derby.  Strangely, it
  appears to have no connection to the Penhew Foundation.
- A letter from Puneet Chaudhary of Limehouse relating to the
  warehousing and shipping of "sundry antiquities" to Shanghai.
- A business card for Empire Spices in Soho.
- Egyptian-style artwork of strange creatures:
  - A dark winged thing, somehow both leprous and scaly.
  - A winged hulking beast, with a dragon-like tail and a fang-rimmed
    jaw.
  - A group of people with deformed faces and too-large eyes.
  - A man on fire and surrounded by colourful lights, but his features
    shrouded in darkness.
- A large sealed crate addressed to "Ho Fang Import/Export, 15 Kaoyang
  Street, Shanghai, China".
- A smaller sealed crate addressed to "Randolph Shipping Company, Port
  Darwin, Northern Territory, Dominion of Australia".  This crate had
  the winged-circle symbol on it.
- An ornate wooden chest decorated with silver depictions of strange
  creatures that look like a cross between a lizard and an ape with
  too-long arms, which contained two ornate silver daggers.
- Books in many languages.

Not wanting to leave any evidence of your presence, you took
photographs but didn't disturb or take anything.

You then snuck back out of the building and left, locking the gate
behind you.

### 14th of February, 1925

Jason and Wilhelmina finally told Prof. Musgrave that they still
suspected the Penhew Foundation, and asked his opinion on the
paintings, handing him the photos they took.  After spending some
hours in his study, Prof. Musgrave found features in the artwork which
clearly dated it to the Third Dynasty, which is when the Black Pharaoh
is said to have ruled.  Caught up in his research, he almost missed
the train to Derby.

You then all set off for Lesser Edale.


England session 3, 2019-04-13
-----------------------------

### 14th of February, 1925 (mid afternoon)

You arrived in Edale, which is far as the train can take you.  You
walked the five miles to Lesser Edale in a little under two hours,
with rain starting just before you arrived at the village pub, the
Laughing Horse Inn.

Lesser Edale is home to the Vane family, currently presided over by
Lord Arthur Vane.  The Vanes live in Plumb Castle to the north of the
village.  Clarissa knows of them, but has not met them in years.

You quietly asked Bill Tatlock, the landlord, about the recent
murders.  He said that "folk around here don't like to talk about it"
but, with a little encouragement, told you that the murders happened
three months ago during the nights of the full moon.  George Osgood
and Lydia Perkins were killed, Harold Short was attacked but survived,
and has gone to his brother in Skegness.  Constable Tumwell shot a
wild dog, and he thinks the matter is settled, but there have been
strange howls on the nights of the full moon---which starts tomorrow.

You decided to split up and go talk to the families of the victims.
Dr. Crane and Lady Ashdown went to see John Perkins, father of Lydia
Perkins; the rest of you went to see where Harold Short was attacked
and then go on to the Osgood farm.

Dr. Crane knocked on the door, and was answered by John Perkins.
Dr. Crane introduced himself and Clarissa, and upon hearing the title
*Lady* Ashdown, John took a step back in shock and said "Another one!
Come back for more, have you?"  He started ranting about the
unjustness of the British class system and how the Labour party would
put a stop to this[^feb14_1].

[^feb14_1]: The Labour party had experienced a rapid increase in vote
  share since about 1910, which probably contributes to John's high
  hopes.

After several minutes of this, Dr. Crane asked if this was something
to do with Lord Vane (Clarissa was keeping quiet).  You learned that
John thinks that Lawrence Vane, son of Lord Arthur Vane, had something
to do with the death of Lydia, who was found mauled.  Lawrence was
seen nearby on the night of Lydia's death, though "he had no reason to
be here".  The police talked to Lawrence Vane but declared him
innocent, but "the police won't charge these aristocrats".  You also
learned that both Lord Arthur and Lawrence had been away recently,
Lawrence returned six months ago and Lord Arthur three or four.
Although seeming somewhat unhinged, John seemed to believe everything
he said about Lawrence being the culprit (or at least very close to
the culprit).  After managing to extract yourselves from the
conversation, you examined his field where the body had been found,
but found no clues.

Wilhelmina, Prof. Musgrave, and Jason went to Harold Short's house,
but nobody was at home.  You continued on to the Osgood farm, and
there met Edith Osgood, wife of George Osgood.  She said that George
heard a noise in the barn and went to investigate, taking his shotgun
with him.  She heard a shot, and a scream.  She looked out of the
window and saw a hairy form, the height of a man, running away on all
fours into the woods to the north.  "It was a demon", she said.  Upon
mustering her courage, she went to the barn and found the mauled form
of George Osgood.  The sheep in the barn had not been attacked.

You all returned to the pub, where you stayed the night.

### 15th of February, 1925

You decided to pay Lord Vane a visit, and went to Plum Castle first
thing in the morning, leaving your calling cards to request a social
visit.

You visited the police station, which is clearly just a house, but
didn't find anybody in.  You then returned to the pub, and there met
Constable Tumwell, the police force for Lesser Edale.  You asked him
about the murders, and he said that there had been no trouble since he
shot the wild dog, the case is closed in his opinion.  When asked
about the howling he said that there are always wild animals in the
countryside, but these don't seem to be causing any trouble.

You went back to his house to use his phone to ring Harold Short.  You
got in touch with his brother, Thomas Short, who said that Harold
couldn't possibly talk about the events of that night, as he was still
recovering.  You failed to persuade Thomas to tell you any more
details than you already knew.

You then visited the village church.  The church building is quite
new, but the foundations of the old can be seen in the grounds, which
are partly cemetery.  Next to the church is a vicarage.  Inside the
church you found Reverend Jeremy Stratton.

You asked Rev. Stratton about the murders, and he said that he
understood Constable Tumwell had shot a wild dog, and that that seemed
to be the end of it.  Jason could tell he wasn't being entirely
truthful, and that he really didn't think the shooting of the dog had
achieved anything.  Jason hinted at this quite strongly, but
Rev. Stratton simply said that he hopes life in the village can return
to normal.

You then turned to the topic of the Vanes.  Rev. Stratton said that
Lord Arthur spent most of his time in London, taking his role in the
House of Lords very seriously.  In addition to a son, Lawrence, there
is a daughter, Eloise.  Lord Arthur returned about four months ago and
has remained in Lesser Edale to care for Eloise, who has taken ill.
You asked how long ago Eloise fell ill, but the Reverend thought that
you were beginning to pry upon personal matters, and ended the
conversation.

Outside the church, you found a groundskeeper.  Jason approached him
and tried to make conversation, but mostly got grumblings and
laughter.  Nearby you spotted the new graves of George Osgood and
Lydia Perkins, and noticed they had a small silver crucifix over their
headstones.  You asked the groundskeeper about these, and his good
natutre fell away immediately, as he said "these are local matters,
they don't concern outsiders", and turned away.  You pressed him to
continue, and he said "they were murdered by the beast, them
crucifixes will keep 'em down where they belong; don't want 'em
turning", and he stalked off.  Jason tried to get him to say more, but
he wouldn't.

As tonight is the first night of the full moon, you decided to arm
yourselves and go to a high location to try to identify the source of
the howling.  Dr. Crane visited John Perkins and rented three
shotguns.


England session 4, 2019-04-27
-----------------------------

### 15th of February, 1925 (late afternoon)

With not much to do until sunset, you returned to the church to ask if
you could buy any silver crucifixes, like those on the graves.  You
were told no, the silver belongs to the Church and is not for sale.

At sunset you went up a hill, and a little after the moon rose the
howling started.  The sound seemed to be coming from every direction,
echoing so much you couldn't tell if it was one voice or many.
Clarissa recognised the sound from a story she had once heard, about
ghouls: man-sized creatures which eat human flesh.

You decided to walk towards Plum Castle to see if the sound was coming
from there.  The howling steadily got louder as you did.  About half
way between the castle and the village, you found a torn scrap of
frilly cloth, perhaps from a dress.  It had clearly been out in the
elements for a while.

When you arrived at the crumbling outer wall of the castle, you could
tell that the howling was coming from somewhere inside the castle
grounds, on the opposite side of the keep to where you were.  You
snuck around the building, paying close attention to the windows, and
stopped facing the mausoleum.  You could see light reflected on the
ground, a room in the keep had a lighted window.

```asciiart
    x <- you are here
_____
     |                       ___________
     |                      |           |
keep |                      | mausoleum |
     | <- lighted window    |           | <- door
     |                      |           |
```

Wilhelmina crept to the window and listened.  She heard two male
voices, one older and one younger, having some sort of argument.  The
younger said "we can't keep this hidden... this nightly ordeal... we
need help!" the older said "no, we can't involve outsiders."

You snuck across to the mausoleum and around to the big double doors,
which face away from the keep.  You listened, but couldn't hear
anything other than the howling.  You carefully pushed the door open,
and saw just a mausoleum, no movement, no creatures.  The howling
seemed to be coming from a staircase to a lower level.  You descended
it, and saw nothing again---the howling filled the room.

Jason found a loose floor slab, which revealed a narrow man-made shaft
with a rusty ladder, descending into what looked like a natural cave.
You descended, and saw a tunnel.  Clarissa realised the tunnel headed
towards the keep.  You followed it.

You arrived at a brick wall, and the howling was now very loud.

Wilhelmina found a hidden mechanism to open a door in the wall.
Everyone readied their guns.  Wilhelmina flung the door open, but even
as she was opening it the creature burst through: man-tall, with a
dog-like face, grey skin, shaggy hair, and yellow talons.  Dr. Crane
panicked, losing the ability to focus.  Jason fired two shots,
flinging the creature back into the room whence it came.  It didn't
get up.

You saw that the room was a dungeon cell.  When you looked at the
creature again, it had transformed into a young girl, you guessed to
be Eloise Vane, with a gaping wound in her chest from the shotgun
blast.  Dr. Crane rushed into the cell, trying to help the girl, who
was obviously dead.  He began grinding his teeth from stress.

You heard a door opening inside the keep, and rapid footsteps.
Dr. Crane wouldn't leave the girl, and Jason stayed behind with him.
The rest of you fled back through the tunnel.

Two men with shotguns entered, who you guessed to be Arthur and
Lawrence Vane.  When Lawrence saw Eloise, he collapsed to his knees.
Arthur alternately demanded "what have you done?" and "where did you
come from?", gesturing towards the hidden door.  Dr. Crane looked up
sadly and said "the mausoleum", and Arthur sent Lawrence to it after
dragging him to his feet.  Jason tried to reason with Arthur, saying
that it had to be done, that there had been enough death in the
village already, but didn't get through.  Arthur said that you would
be staying there, and left.

Those of you who fled escaped back to your rooms at the pub.

### 16th of February, 1925

Prof. Musgrave, Wilhelmina, and Clarissa planned a rescue operation
for that evening.

In the morning, Dr. Crane and Jason were left alone, though they heard
hammering from the secret passage.  In the afternoon, Arthur and
Lawrence returned.  Jason again tried to persuade Arthur, but is just
told to get back, as Lawrence pointed the gun at you.  Arthur took
Eloise's body, and they left you alone and locked in again.

In the evening, Prof. Musgrave, Wilhelmina, and Clarissa returned to
the mausoleum the way they came.  The door had been boarded shut.
They tried to pull the boards out by hand, but lost their grip and
loudly fell back into a puddle.  A door in the keep opened, and you
managed to hide before Lawrence arrived.  He looked around, but didn't
see anything, and returned to the keep.

You then broke into a garden shed, and found a claw hammer and a
shovel.  You returned to the mausoleum, and removed the wood.  You
reunited with Dr. Crane and Jason, and all travelled cross-country
through the night to Edale, to get the first train back to London.


England session 5, 2019-05-11
-----------------------------

### 17th of February, 1925

You all returned to your homes after travelling through the night, and
made some discoveries: Jason found footprints in the dust, leading to
a window; Arthur found the police at his house, and some of the New
York artefacts stolen.  The feather robe, the wooden mask, and the
wooden sceptre were all taken; other more mundane artefacts in the
same room had not, despite it having been ransacked.  The police
thought that the house had probably been visited multiple times, as
there were multiple signs of entry at different points.  Arthur's wife
had been home during all this, but not discovered anything until the
robbery itself.  You spoke to the neighbours, but they had nothing new
to share.

Carson suffered a hallucination where he thought there was someone
else in his hotel room with him, and turned to see the ghoul form of
Eloise Vane fatally wounded but alive and watching him.  He came to
his senses on a train bound for Southampton, and got off at the next
stop.  He then spent the rest of the day in the local pub
recuperating.

The rest of you systematically examined everyone's homes for signs of
trespass.  At Prof. Musgrave's house you found footprints of multiple
people in the garden, and the same in the gardens of Clarissa's house,
where Jason was staying.  When questioned, Clarissa's butler mentioned
that some "ruffians" had been loitering near the house, and he had
chased them off.  You managed to talk your way into Carson's hotel
room, despite his absence, and found that the tongue-mask hadn't been
taken.  You advised the hotel staff that you had reason to believe
Carson's room could be targeted for a robbery, and that they should
increase security if possible.

Jason spent the rest of the day going through Clarissa's garden trying
to track the footprints, but with no luck.  That evening Jason and a
band of brutish thugs (or possibly thuggish brutes) he managed to
round up from a pub kept an eye on Carson's hotel, but saw nothing.

### 18th of February, 1925

You decided to follow up on the Empire Spices business card you found
in the hidden room of the Penhew Foundation's basement, and went to
visit.  You asked around as you approached, and found that it's a
generally well-regarded shop that gets a lot of custom.  You arrived
at 76 Wardour Street to find a two-storey building full of spices from
all around the globe.  While browsing you talked to Zahra Shafik, the
owner, mentioning you had heard about Empire Spices while at the
Penhew Foundation.  Shafik said that she sometimes helped the
Foundation with expedition preparations, giving advice on local
customs, fashioning introductions to the local authorities, that sort
of thing.  You bought some spices and left.

That evening you decided to go investigate the Shipley house, and find
out what was going on there once and for all.  You arrived to find the
house dark.  As you watched it, you saw Miles leave; Arthur and Carson
followed him into the fog.  The rest of you snuck around the back of
the house to the garden, and picked the lock on the gate.

Miles spotted Arthur and Carson, and then headed into a nearby pub.
They followed him in, and accosted him at the bar, sitting down with
him and drawing him into conversation about his recent work.  He
seemed uncomfortable, but unable to extract himself from the
conversation.

Jason picked the padlock on the trapdoor into the basement, and you
all entered cautiously.  It was messy, with boxes, crates, and old
furniture strewn around.  There was a path through the junk to the
south wall.  Jason spotted the outline of a partially hidden door in
the wall, and opened it by pushing a brick.  The door swung open, with
a cloud of snake-smell pouring out into the basement.  The hidden room
was unoccupied.

The room contained shelves covered with jars, some filled with liquid,
some filled with ground-up solids.  One wall was covered in mystic
symbols.  At the base of another wall was a large stone tub covered
with a metal lid.  Clarissa took some of the jars.  Jason cautiously
removed the lid of the tub and revealed the severed head and butchered
body of a naked woman, covered in large claw marks.


England session 6, 2019-05-25
-----------------------------

### 18th of February, 1925

Clarissa, Jason, and Wilhelmina left the basement and moved onto the
Shipley house.  Jason picked the lock of the back door, and you snuck
into the kitchen.  Wilhelmina crept up the stairs, quickly looking at
the three open bedrooms, still dusty and showing no signs of recent
use, and peered through the lock of the shut one.  She couldn't see or
hear anything.  As Wilhelmina focused on the door, there was a noise
from the attic room[^feb18_1].  Wilhelmina crept back downstairs to
relay her findings.

[^feb18_1]: Where you previously saw Miles' paintings.

You decided to pick the lock on the bedroom door and see what was
inside.  You snuck to the door, and Jason picked the lock.  He
succeeded, but had to force the door as it was stuck on something in
the room.  As soon as he put some strength into it, the door knocked
the obstacle free, and swung open noiselessly.  There were no sounds
from the attic to indicate awareness of you.

You went into the bedroom, shut the door behind you, and took out
torches.  You saw Miles' clothes, scattered around.  Inside the closet
you found a fancy wooden box containing a syringe and a vial of
greenish liquid.  The syringe had been used so much that it was
stained where it had been repeatedly filled up to.  You took the box,
and decided to lure Bertha out of the attic so you could see what she
was doing in there.

Wilhelmina went back downstairs and made a loud noise by banging some
pans together, before running out through the back door.  Bertha
shouted "Miles, is that you?" and left the attic.  Jason and Clarissa
quickly went up the stairs.  They found a padlocked cabinet, its door
open, in the middle of the room.  Inside the cabinet was an incredibly
realistic painting, clearly Miles' masterpiece.  You grabbed the
painting and headed back down to the first floor, and escaped through
a bedroom window onto the street.  Rather than wait around for Bertha
to realise that she had been robbed, you fled back to Clarissa's home.

Some time later Arthur and Carson returned, Miles having extracted
himself from the conversation at last.

### 19th of February, 1925

Around noon you all met up at Clarissa's home, Carson nursing a bad
hangover.  You decided to send the police an anonymous tip about the
body you found in the basement of the Shipley house, and then set to
examining your findings.  Carson looked at the greenish liquid, but
hadn't seen or heard of anything like it before.  Clarissa sent a
servant to catch a rat, and Carson measured out a small dosage.

When the servant returned with the rat, Carson took out a notebook,
and injected the rat with the liquid.  The rat stood still, eyes
bulging, looking around.  It remained that way for about half an hour,
before returning to normal with no apparent side-effects from its
temporary paralysis.

While Carson was observing the rat, Arthur and Clarissa examined the
painting.  Jason averted his gaze.  Despite being clearly incomplete,
it was incredibly realistic, even by Miles' usual standard.  The
painting depicted a swampy area filled with serpents and humanoid
lizards.  In the middle of the swamp was an island with an altar on
it.  The swamp was surrounded by ancient plants which Arthur
identified as being the extinct flora of the Permian era[^feb19_1].
As you looked at the painting, the figures on it seemed to move
purposefully, though you couldn't tell what they were doing.

[^feb19_1]: 300 to 250 million years ago.

After the rat recovered, Carson judged that the drug must be some sort
of hallucinogenic.  Clarissa volunteered to try the drug.  After
laying her down on a sofa, Carson measured out a half dose and
injected her.

Clarissa felt her viewpoint rapidly pulled backwards out of her body,
which she could no longer feel.  She found herself in Egypt in front
of a pyramid, and felt as if she had travelled in time.  She saw five
Europeans entering the pyramid, and she followed them.  She recognised
them as the members of the Carlyle expedition.  Her vision blurred,
and the people were gone.  She felt as if she had travelled in time
again.  She felt like she wasn't alone, as if some presence were aware
of her and watching her, and this presence felt amusement at this.
She was pulled upwards, through the rock of the pyramid, into the sky.
She saw a great shadow covering the land, and turned to see the sun
being eclipsed.  She was pulled up into space.  She saw a burst of
light from the ground, and a rocket climbing towards her.  The rocket
passed her and, as the eclipse became total, exploded.  Despite now
being in space she felt a shockwave pass through her.  A great
triangular rent appeared in space, somehow blacker than the
surrounding space.  Inside the rent was a sole red star, which felt
malevolent.  Clarissa was drawn towards the red star and as she was
about to pass through the triangular rent, awoke in hysterics.  An
hour and a half had passed.

Unable to calm her down, Carson gave her a sedative, and she slept for
a few more hours.  After waking up she shared the vision, and you
realised it had similarities with Roger Carlyle's vision which he
described to Robert Huston.

### 20th of February to 3rd of March, 1925

I suggested you make an **Idea Roll** to pick up on a missed
opportunity for investigation.

Retracing your steps, going over your clues again, and trying to work
out where you should go next, you realised that, despite the
suspicious nature of Edward Gavigan and the Penhew Foundation, you
hadn't done anything more than break in and explore.  So you decided
to take turns watching Gavigan and the Foundation.

After several days you knew that Gavigan was a man of habit.  He
arrived at the Foundation at the same time every morning.  He went out
for lunch to the same place every day at the same time.  He left the
Foundation and went to one of a handful of restaurants at the same
time every evening, before then going home.

One day he did something different.  At lunch time he headed not
towards his usual restaurant, but towards Wembley.  Clarissa was
watching at the time, and followed him to the British Empire
Exhibition.

Gavigan met a woman wearing a headscarf who Clarissa realised was
Zahra Shafik, owner of Empire Spices.  Unable to get close enough to
hear the full conversation, Clarissa only received these snippets:

- "friends of that irritating journalist"
- "they came to the shop"
- "shame, I have the greatest respect for him professionally, but"
- "my sources say they were in New York"
- "break in at the Foundation"
- "they can't be allowed to interfere with the shipments"

They then parted ways.  Clarissa informed the rest of you, and you
promptly decided to interfere with the shipments, assuming this
related to the crates addressed to Australia and Shanghai you found in
the secret room in the Penhew Foundation basement.

### 3rd of March to 9th of March, 1925

Figuring that a truck would arrive at the Foundation at some point to
collect the crates, you kept up your watch.  One night when Arthur was
watching, this happened.  He followed the truck to a warehouse in
Limehouse, and paid a street urchin to go and tell the rest of you
where he had gone.  Arthur entered the warehouse and asked the owner,
Puneet Chaudhary, about shipments from the Penhew Foundation.
Chaudhary said that he had been warehousing things for the Foundation
for a while, and that the shipping was done by a vessel called the
Ivory Wind, currently docked in the Regent's Canal Dock and due to set
sail in a few days.

Arthur left the warehouse, by which time the rest of you had arrived.
You went to the dock and found the ship, where a crew member said that
the captain was at the pub.  You went to the local pub and found him,
Lars Torvak, a heavily drinking Norwegian man.

You asked about booking travel to Shanghai.  Lars was surprised by
this, saying that his ship doesn't normally carry passengers, but you
said that there were people you wanted to keep out of the sight of.
He agreed to take you.  You then asked about his shipments, and if you
could inspect them.  You failed to persuade him, and he said "I'll
pretend I didn't hear that."

### 11th of March, 1925

A few days later the Ivory Wind set sail, with you aboard.

### End

This is the end of this chapter.  Bonus sanity points are:

- `+1d6` for putting an end to the happenings in the Shipley house.
- `-1d3` for killing Eloise Vane and making an enemy of Lord Arthur.

The next chapter will begin with you arriving in Shanghai.


China session 1, 2019-06-08
---------------------------

It was a bright and sunny morning on the day the Ivory Wind set sail.
The ship, fully loaded with cargo; your belongings, stored in the
passenger rooms which the crew had, grumbling at the orders of the
captain, vacated; and you, standing on the deck watching the crew and
the dock workers make their final preparations.

As you watched, a dense fog started to pour out from the city,
creeping across the ground.  The fog hadn't quite reached the ship
when Captain Torvak gave the order to set sail.  As the ship pulled
off into the Thames, the fog rushed towards it, as if driven by a
gale, but there was only a light wind.  The fog piled up obscuring the
city from view, towering over the ship, but stopped when it reached
the water.  The breeze brought you the faint smell of burning hair.

You sailed down the Thames with a wall of fog on each bank.  Captain
Torvak said he'd never seen weather like it.  Carson swore he saw the
fog moving purposefully, following you.  The Ivory Wind made it out
into the sea, leaving London and its fogs and cults behind.

The crossing took the best part of two months, with the ship stopping
to exchange cargo in Marseilles, Malta, Port Said, Aden, Bombay,
Singapore, and finally Shanghai.

It wasn't exactly a luxury crossing, but you all relaxed and
recuperated as best you could during the long voyage.

<aside class="highlight">
All gain `1d6` Sanity.
</aside>

Clarissa spent most of her time studying the book **Africa's Dark
Sects**, which you found at the Ju-Ju House in New York.  Sometimes
several days went by with her staying locked up in her room.  Some
mornings she would come for breakfast tired and bleary eyed, then
return to her room to spend the day sleeping.  The book goes into
great and gory detail about the ritual practices of various cults,
including human sacrifice, and Clarissa finished her study certain
that there was still more to learn from the tome.

<aside class="highlight">
Clarissa gains `4` Cthulhu Mythos; loses `1d10` Sanity; and has
learned a ritual to create undead servants.
</aside>

This ritual was used by a particularly bloodthirsty tribe, the Kikuyu.
The same tribe which is blamed for killing the members of the Carlyle
Expedition.  As she read the description of the undead servants,
Clarissa couldn't help but be reminded of the four mutilated people in
the basement of the Ju-Ju House.

---

You came to Shanghai following the lead of some crates in a hidden
basement in the Penhew Foundation, which were addressed to Ho Fang
Import/Export, Shanghai.  But that isn't the only time you've seen
mention of China in your investigation.  Jackson Elias' Nairobi notes
say that he met a man who claimed to have met Jack Brady, Roger
Carlyle's bodyguard, in Hong Kong well after the Kenyan courts had
declared the entire expedition dead.

Shanghai in 1925 is a divided city.  There's the old walled Chinese
city itself; to the west is the French Concession; and to the north is
the Shanghai International Settlement, ruled by the British and the
Americans.  Chinese law doesn't apply to the French Concession or the
International Settlement.  Outside of the International Settlement,
most people don't speak fluent, or any, English.  Citizens of the US,
Mexico, and most European colonial powers are immune to Chinese law
even in the old city and can only be tried under the laws of their
respective states, a fact the native Chinese are not fond of.  Despite
the strong western control over Shanghai, Chinese make up the vast
majority of the population.  Of the 1.6 million inhabitants, only
20,000 are non-Chinese, and most of those are Japanese.  The
westerners tend to either be incredibly wealthy businessmen, or
undocumented immigrants trying to eke out a living where they can.
The national government has little authority, and the city is largely
ruled by gangs.  Buildings have high walls and barred windows.
Everyone who is anyone employs guards.  And the wealthy walk the
streets in shabby clothes to hide their status. The currency is the
yuan, which is used interchangeably with the Mexican silver dollar.
One US dollar is worth two yuan.

After spiriting you and his cargo through customs with suspicious
ease, Captain Torvak introduced you to Li Wen-Cheng, a young man with
a very western outlook.  At the captain's recommendation you employed
him as a comprador, a kind of assistant to help you interact with the
locals.  You have him at your disposal, though he's not spending every
waking moment with you.  He can usually be found at the Methodist
University if you need him.  He can help if you want to interact with
anyone who doesn't know English, which will be most of the Chinese who
don't regularly work with westerners, and with providing general
information and gossip about the city.

---

It's now the morning of the 4th of May.  You've been in Shanghai for a
few days, enough time to get your bearings, find lodgings in a hotel
on the outskirts of the International Settlement, and send an update
on your investigation to Carlton Ramsey.  What do you do?

### 4th of May, 1925

You wanted to hire some guards, so Li Wen-Cheng took you all (except
Arthur who didn't want to go) to the Stumbling Tiger Bar, which has a
reputation of being a place where you can acquire anything you need:
items, people, and information.  The Stumbling Tiger Bar is in a
district of bars, gambling dens, and flower girl houses[^flower_girl].
Opening the door to the bar released a wall of cigarette smoke.  The
inside was busy, filthy, and Carson couldn't help but think of the
risks of tuberculosis as he entered.  There you met the bartender
Fergus Chum---polishing a glass with a surprisingly clean rag---a
mixed race man who greeted you warmly and asked you to call him
"McChum".  You asked about hiring thuggish brutes (brutish thugs?) and
he said he knew some guys.  You negotiated a week-long contract at a
day rate of $3, open to renegotiation at the end of the week; they
will meet you at your hotel tomorrow morning.

[^flower_girl]: A flower girl house is a place where pretty girls
  entertain men.  It's not necessarily a brothel, but many of the
  girls do have sex with their customers for money.

Jason had the idea of asking McChum, an information broker, if he knew
anything about Jack Brady.  McChum said he didn't know the name.
Carson spotted this was a lie and signalled Jason.  Jason discretely
passed over some money to help jog McChum's memory, and he confessed
that he did know Jack Brady and told you that Brady had gone to
contact Charlie Grey, a "big money man" in Rangoon, to conduct some
business involving guns.  Jason realised that this story was only a
partial truth but didn't press for more.

While Jason and McChum were engaged in conversation, Carson looked
around the bar at the other patrons.  Carson's attention was caught by
a very drunk-looking man, but Carson noticed his actions didn't seem
quite right.  His motor skills and reactions weren't uniformly
degraded, and he managed to spill much more than he drank.  The man
was only pretending to be drunk.  Carson asked McChum who the man was.
McChum said he was a regular customer, some sort of foreman involved
in a construction project.

You all wanted some weapons, so Carson asked Li Wen-Cheng if there was
a gun shop nearby, and went off to do some shopping.  He bought enough
for a small army, and eventually headed back to the hotel.

Jason, Wilhelmina, and Clarissa kept an eye on the drunk guy for hours
but he didn't leave.  Eventually they went back to the hotel to meet
Carson.

While this was going on, Arthur went to visit a buddhist temple.
While there he found an advert for Mr Lung's horoscopes and fortune
telling, which he decided to go check out.

Arthur found the small house on Kaoyang Street.  Its bright red door
smelled of wet paint.  On either side of the door were wooden plaques
with stylised symbols based on Chinese script.  Outside the door sat a
Siamese cat meowing loudly.  Arthur knocked on the door, but got no
response.  He peered through the window and saw a man, he caught the
man's attention and knocked again.

The door opened slowly to reveal a man wearing a bright purple hat and
robe.  Arthur introduced himself, and asked if the man was Mr. Lung.
He assented, and opened the door further.  The cat dashed in.  Arthur
stepped through the door, which seemed to astonish Mr. Lung.
Immediately inside the door was a screen obscuring the rest of the
home, and many hanging amulets.  Mr. Lung keenly showed the amulets to
Arthur and asked his opinion.  Arthur was polite.  Beyond the screen,
the furniture of the home was scattered across the floor, blocking the
path, and had to be climbed over.  Arthur could tell that there was
some organisation to the furniture, but couldn't tell what it was.  As
he clambered over the furniture, Mr. Lung again looked astonished.
Mr. Lung then showed Arthur some scrolls decorated with tigers.
Arthur was polite again.  The cat was still nowhere to be seen.

Mr. Lung then gestured to a room and said that he did his work in his
office, and invited Arthur in.  As soon as Arthur had stepped through
the door, Mr. Lung dashed out and slammed it shut.  The door was
locked.  The room contained a desk, on which was a pile of money and a
box of matches.  The walls were covered in black drapes embroided with
stars and representations of the Chinese zodiac.  The drapes were
lumpy as if they covered something.  Arthur moved one of the drapes,
and they all fell to the floor.  The walls were covered in dozens of
mirrors.  Arthur immediately began to feel ill, and he realised what
was going on.  Everything Mr. Lung had showed him was some protection
against demons in Chinese mythology, and mirrors were the most potent
of all.  Despite not being a demon, Arthur felt very affected by the
mirrors.

<aside class="highlight">
Arthur loses 5 POW.
</aside>

Arthur tried to force the door.  He failed, and smashed some of the
mirrors, before deciding to cover himself with the drapes.  Once out
of sight of the mirrors, Arthur felt better again.  He then heard the
cat yowling from the other room.  Suddenly there was a loud roar, and
Mr. Lung screamed.  A while later Mr. Lung, covered in scratches and
bruises, opened the door and said "so you weren't the demon after
all..." before collapsing onto Arthur.  Arthur managed to get him to
say where the nearest apothecary was, and half carried Mr. Lung to get
medical treatment.  Arthur looked for the cat, but it had vanished.
As Mr. Lung calmed down, he managed to explain that he had foretold
that a demon would come to him today, and that he assumed it was
Arthur.

Impressed by seeing Mr. Lung's genuine power, the power to banish a
demon, Arthur was keen to get his horoscope foretold.  Mr. Lung was
only too happy to oblige, and told Arthur that he was only part way
through a long journey with more still to come; that there would be
terrible things man was not meant to see; and to beware of seafood.

Arthur then asked Mr. Lung if he knew anything about Ho Fang, whose
warehouse is on the same street.  Mr. Lung said that Ho Fang is a
powerful businessman, and not the sort of person you want to get on
the wrong side of.  There are rumours he's involved in smuggling; but
in the import/export business who isn't?  Arthur decided to go check
out the warehouse.

Ho Fang's warehouse is a large building by a pier on the banks of the
Whangpoo River.  At the front looks like offices, and around the back
is the warehouse proper.  The warehouse itself has six huge doors,
open at this hour, with people coming to and fro.  All the windows
were high off the ground and barred.  Arthur then returned to the
hotel.

After everyone met back up in the hotel, and Arthur recounted the
story of his terrible day, Wilhelmina and Jason decided to head back
out to have a look at the warehouse.  It was locked up by the time
they arrived, with the large doors shut.  They noticed that the
warehouse was partially built over the pier, and it looked like a
small boat could fit beneath it at low tide.  They suspected that this
was used for transporting items Ho Fang wanted to keep hidden.

On their way back to the hotel they went to the Stumbling Tiger Bar,
and saw that the drunk foreman had left.

### 5th of May, 1925

You decided to look into all of your leads simultaneously: find a way
to contact Charlie Grey, get a boat to investigate the bit of Ho
Fang's warehouse which extends over the pier, and follow the
pretending-to-be-drunk guy from the Stumbling Tiger Bar.

Arthur went to the British Consulate to follow up on Charlie Grey, as
they're probably a British or American citizen.  He found contact
details for a Charles Grey Ltd. registered in Rangoon and sent a
telegram asking about Jack Brady.  Meanwhile, Carson went to rent a
small boat.

You then waited until the evening.

Jason and Wilhelmina went to the bar, keeping a low profile while
watching the foreman.  Eventually he waved goodbye to his companions
and stumbled out into the crowd.  You followed him.  Even thought it
was now night, the narrow streets were still packed, and staying out
of sight wasn't difficult.  As he got further from the bar, he
appeared to sober up---far too quickly for actual drunkeness.  When he
reached a quieter area, he stopped and looked around before turning
down a side street, but you managed to duck out of sight.  You caught
up and followed him to his hotel.

Wilhelmina distracted the one receptionist up at this hour, while
Jason carefully followed the man to his room.  Through the closed
door, Jason heard conversation in Japanese, and the name "Jack Brady".

Jason and Wilhelmina then went to meet up with everyone else at the
boat, and sailed beneath the pier.  Above you, in the floor of the
warehouse, was a pair of large metal doors with no obvious lock or
mechanism.  You all strained with crowbars, but failed to shift them.
Jason decided to try breaking in through the front and finding a way
to open the doors from the inside.

Jason picked the lock of the front door and entered the office part at
the front of the building.  Jason found himself in a small entrance
hall connected to a corridor, with stairs going up at one end and
offices at the other.  Through the wall from the direction of the
warehouse he could hear voices.  Jason had a look at the offices, but
found nothing interesting.  He started climbing the stairs, and
stopped when he noticed a loose stair which would probably make a
noise when he stood on it.  He pried the board up, and saw that it
gave access to the ceiling of a room directly above where the boat
was.  Jason climbed down into the room, which was separated from the
main warehouse by a large sealed door.

The room had two large, padlocked, metal doors in the floor, with a
winch mechanism above them.  The room also had a lot of strange items
and many crates: several statues of different sizes of a large bloated
woman with tentacles emerging from her flesh; a bronze vessel used in
ancestor rituals (Jason had seen such a thing before in the British
Museum while in London), with carvings of strange beasts; and a
display case containing several large bones, labelled "dragon bones".

Jason turned his attention to the doors in the floor, and managed to
break the locks, allowing the others into the room.  After examining
everything, you decided to take one of the bloated woman statues and
open some of the crates.  There was no obvious sign of the crates sent
from the Penhew Foundation, most of the crates were labelled "A.P.".
You remembered that "A.P." are the initials of Sir Aubrey Penhew.  You
opened a crate, and found a very strange and intricate looking
mechanism.  You decided to take that too.  You opened an unlabelled
crate, and found large, baggy, black and yellow robes.  You took some
of those too.

You lowered your spoils into the boat.  Then Jason and Wilhelmina
decided to go explore upstairs while the rest of you waited quietly.


China session 2, 2019-06-23
---------------------------

You've come to Shanghai, following the lead of some crates addressed
to Ho Fang Import/Export which you found in a hidden cultist basement
of the Penhew Foundation in London.  You've learned that Ho Fang is
powerful, involved with smuggling, and definitely not the sort of
person you want to get on the wrong side of.  You've also found signs
of Jack Brady, Roger Carlyle's bodyguard and surviving member of the
Carlyle Expedition.

Last session you found a secret smuggler's entrance to Ho Fang's
warehouse, accessible at low tide, and broke in at night.  You found
some strange things: statues of bloated, tentacled, women; black and
yellow robes; and intricate machine parts.  It's now well after
midnight, Jason and Wilhelmina have gone to explore the upstairs of
the warehouse offices, while the rest of you wait below in your boat.

### 5th of May, 1925 (night)

Jason and Wilhelmina crept upstairs and found a large, plainly
decorated, office.  Jason looked through a ledger on the desk and
found some non-Chinese names and destinations: Omar al-Shakti (Cairo),
Ahja Singh (Mombasa), Randolph Shipping Company (Port Darwin).  The
entries mostly mentioned antiques, art, and books, however the
Randolph Shipping Company seemed to be handling a lot of mining
equipment.  Wilhelmina looked through the filing cabinets and found
more papers with those names on, though the papers themselves were in
Chinese.

The room also contained many large rolled-up navigational charts.
Jason realised one was less dusty than the rest and, figuring that it
was frequently used, took some photos.  The map was for Gray Dragon
Island, a volcanic island with some sort of large cave inside the
volcano, 300 miles to the south.

You then heard movement downstairs.  Wilhelmina peered down the
stairs, and saw that the coast was clear.  You both crept back down to
the room with the hidden door, took the dragon bones, and got back
into the boat.

As you sailed away, you saw a face watching you from the shadows on
the riverbank.

Hoping to avoid being followed back to your hotel, you got off the
boat sooner than you had planned, and took a circuitous route.  You
didn't see anyone following you, and returned to the hotel safely.

You decided to wake up Prof. Musgrave and ask if he'd seen anything
like these dragon bones before.  He said bones were a bit out of his
area of expertise, but he would have a look.  Musgrave said that the
bones were from something larger than a human, though he's not sure
what, and they were an unusual shade of grey.

You also examined more closely the mechanical parts you took, but
nobody could even guess what they could be for.

### 6th of May, 1925

Prof. Musgrave woke up first, and sat in the hotel cafe eating
breakfast while reading the Shanghai Courier, a dual-language
newspaper.  The front-page story was about the Seamen's Club being
attacked and partially destroyed last night by "strange creatures"
which came from the river, though officials who had inspected the
damage thought it was due to seepage undermining the ground.  Another
short story talked about "yet another" murder where the victim had had
their arms cut off and left to bleed out.  There are rumours of a
madman, and the police haven't found the perpetrator yet.

While Musgrave was reading, the thuggish brutes you'd hired from
Fergus Chum arrived.  With their poor English, and the aid of the
hotel receptionist, they conveyed that they had been hired as
protection.

Eventually, everyone but Wilhelmina had woken up, come down to
breakfast, and found Musgrave sitting in the middle of five
mean-looking thugs.  You decided to go to the university to do some
research and to see if the engineering or physics department could
tell you what the machine parts you found were.

Musgrave, Clarissa, and the thuggish brutes went to the library.
Musgrave asked the librarian for anything they had about Gray Dragon
Island in English, and received some navigational charts with basic
factual information: it's a small volcanic island in such a
strategically useless position that no country has claimed ownership
of it.  He satisfies the staff of his academic credentials and gets a
library card.  Clarissa found a book on the history of religion in
Shanghai, in Chinese.  Musgrave found a book about local folklore,
also in Chinese.

Jason and Carson met up with Li Wen-Cheng and went to the engineering
department.  They managed to persuade the receptionist how important
it was to speak with the head of the department, and made an
appointment for that afternoon.  They then went to the library to pass
the time.

Li Wen-Cheng translated fragments of the books Musgrave and Clarissa
had checked out:

- Gray Dragon Island is called that because it was once an active
  volcano.  The last eruption killed all the inhabitants, and the
  island is still uninhabited.  It hasn't been active for centuries.

- A god in the form of a bloated, tentacled, woman was once worshipped
  by the Cult of the Bloated Woman.  The cult had a presence all over
  China, but was concentrated in Shanghai with a few hundred members.
  The cult was secretive about its practices and beliefs, but it was
  known to have connections to the criminal underworld.  It gradually
  died out and isn't thought to exist in the modern day.

Jason, Carson, and Li Wen-Cheng went to their meeting with the head of
the engineering department.  He was stumped by the device, and guessed
that it could be part of some control system, but he really doesn't
know.  He asked where you got it, you blatantly lied, and he didn't
press the matter.  He said that the device is very advanced, and
suggested that it could possibly be from some sort of military
research.

Meanwhile, Wilhelmina woke up and found you gone.  She read the
Shanghai Courier, and figured you had probably gone to investigate the
Seamen's Club, which is where she went.  The entire side of the
building facing the river had collapsed, and the area was cordoned off
with a few spectators, both Chinese and European.

One of the spectators was a German sailor who had been at the club
during the attack.  He said he saw the creatures, and described them
as "fish men".  He said they seemed to be searching for something, but
whatever it was they returned to the river empty-handed.

Wilhelmina asked if anyone unusual had been staying at the club.  He
said that there had been an American, who gave the name John Smith,
who arrived last week and left the day before the attack.  The
American was tall and muscular, with short hair.  Didn't talk much,
and kept to himself.  Wilhelmina took the German's contact details.

Wilhelmina then visited the port authority to check if any ships
matched with the dates John Smith stayed at the club.  She found that
the only non-Chinese and non-Japanese ship to arrive on the right day
was a British yacht called The Dark Mistress[^may6_1] registered to an
Alfred Penhurst, with contact c/o Ho Fang Import/Export[^may6_2].

You realised that this was probably the ship in the photo you found in
Jackson Elias' room back in New York.

[^may6_1]: You all thought that name was really suspicious, but it's
  not necessarily so.  Shakespeare wrote some sonnets about his "Dark
  Mistress", and using the name for a ship is not unheard of.

[^may6_2]: The crates with the machine parts in Ho Fang's warehouse
  were labelled "A.P."

While travelling back from the university, you realised you were being
followed.  To try to catch your tail off guard, you headed to a
quieter area, and everyone but Musgrave hid after turning a corner
into an alley.  Three people arrived at the head of the alley, and
stopped when they saw Musgrave alone.  You managed to surround the
three, and asked who had sent them.  One said they served a powerful
mistress.  As you were trying to interrogate them, Musgrave noticed
that five more people, with guns, were approaching from the other end
of the alley, and you all ran off.

You met back up with Wilhelmina at the hotel, and decided to move to
another hotel.  You went to one deeper in the International
Settlement.

You decided to visit Gray Dragon Island, and figured it would take a
day or two to get there, depending on weather.  You went to the docks
to hire a ship and crew, but didn't have much luck.  All the captains
refused you.  They said that the last few ships which tried to go to
Gray Dragon Island have all disappeared.  A man from one of the ships
got rescued at sea, he said that as they approached the island the
weather suddenly turned violent and sunk the ship.

Your queries were overheard by a man who introduced himself as Chu
Min, and said he would take you.  You asked if he was worried like the
other captains, but he said that that was just superstitious nonsense,
and that with charts and a good crew you can sail any waters.

Jason and Wilhelmina were suspicious of Chu Min.  They decided to take
him to the pub to "celebrate" their meeting, to get him drunk, and to
then follow him and try to learn what his deal is.  Jason asked about
Chu Min's background, Chu Min said that he had been a policeman, and
turned to the sea when he couldn't take it anymore; Jason could tell
he was lying about something.  They drank for a few hours in the pub,
and eventually Chu Min got up to leave.  Jason and Clarissa followed a
few minutes later, but Chu Min had disappeared.


China session 3, 2019-07-06
---------------------------

**I didn't get around to writing up proper notes, so here are bullet
points.**

You're setting out to Gray Dragon Island, following a map you found in
Ho Fang's office.  By a stroke of luck, after all the other captains
refused to take you, you encountered the willing Chu Min.  So far
during your short stay in Shanghai you've been watched, followed, and
threatened.  You've hired thugs, followed signs of the cult to Ho
Fang, and found signs of Aubrey Penhew and Jack Brady.  Now you're
leaving it all behind, at least for a few days.  It's now the morning
of the 7th of May, and you and your brutish thugs have just arrived at
the docks.

### 7th of May, 1925

- Met Chu Min at the docks and sailed off
- After three hours the ship turned east, which is not the direction
  of Gray Dragon Island
- Investigators went, with thugs, to ask Chu Min what was going on
- Chu Min tells the investigators they're taking a diversion, not
  going to Gray Dragon Island today, and suggests that they have a
  talk.  He suggests the brutish thugs leave them because "you don't
  know who else's pocket they're in"
- Investigators refuse to send away the brutish thugs.  Chu Min
  shrugs.
- Chu Min asks about their business in Shanghai and why they want to
  go to Gray Dragon Island.  Not a popular destination with tourists.
  He also asked if they knew why they were being followed by Ho Fang,
  Lin Yenyu, and Isoge Taro.
- Investigators open up, seeing that Chu Min knows too much to
  deceive.
- Investigators question Chu Min, who tells them about Firm Action.
- Chu Min signals one of his staff, who operates a radio.  Chu Min
  says that there is someone they should meet, his boat will be here
  soon.  To go to the deck, and this time he really insists that they
  leave the brutish thugs behind.
- After 15 minutes of waiting, an old fishing boat approaches.  On the
  deck is a white man.
- The white man crosses over and has a brief conversation with Chu Min
  out of hearing.
- He turns to the investigators and introduces himself as Jack Brady.
  Jack suggests they get on his boat and accompany him to his base, to
  talk about Gray Dragon Island and his plans.
- During the journey Jack Brady tells his story.
- At the warehouse Jack Brady tells his plans and about the Eye of
  Light and Darkness and invites the investigators along.  He doesn't
  reveal who is doing the translation.  He tells the investigators to
  lay low and not attract further attention.  The investigators ask
  why they are being followed by Lin Yenyu and Isoge Taro.
- When the investigators leave they see some people watching the
  warehouse.  They return to tell Jack Brady, who reveals they are
  Firm Action members.

### 8th of May, 1925

- Investigators go to Shanghai Courier offices and find other
  articles.
- Lantern Street: track down the girl to the hospital but do not go to
  where Chong Mei-Ling has been sold.  Learn about the European.
- Chin-Ling Road: ask the bonze about the monks and the European, if
  he knew why they were meeting.  He did not.  Tracked down Liu
  Chen-dai, he lied out of embarrassment about what he saw.  Checked
  the weather forecast and saw it was poor conditions for a moving
  fire that day (damp and no wind).
- Staked out the docks for the Dark Mistress, which arrived after a
  few days.


China session 4, 2019-08-03
---------------------------

Last session you met Jack Brady, who told you what he knows, and his
plans to render Gray Dragon Island unusable to the cult by means of a
ritual he is having translated.  He offered to bring you along as part
of his strike force when he makes his move.

While you wait for him to contact you again, you've been keeping a
watch on the docks for Sir Aubrey Penhew's yacht, the Dark Mistress.
Tonight, it has arrived.

It is now the night of the 17th of May 1925, 10 days after you met
Jack Brady, and you're all concealed in the shadows watching The Dark
Mistress dock.

What do you do?

### 17th of May, 1925

You watched the crew disembark, you couldn't make out their features
in the darkness, but you saw six tall well-built men, and one shorter
and thinner man.  Judging by the size of the yacht, this would quite
possibly be the total number of crew.  The six well-built men set off
in the direction of Ho Fang's warehouse.  The thin man lit a match for
his pipe, and you saw his face.

The man's skin was sagging, like a sack draped over a frame, his nose
was partially eaten away, his eyes yellow, and he had bald patches.
Carson recognised these as the symptoms of long-term exposure to a
low-intensity source of radiation.

The man didn't seem to be moving from near the ship, so Wilhelmina
decided to try to swim across to it and climb aboard without being
seen.  However the man heard her get into the water, and she decided
to change tack to acting as a diversion, and started shouting "help,
I've fallen in the water!"  When the man went to investigate, Jason
dashed across the dock and into the yacht.

Jason explored the interior of the ship, finding the luxurious guest
rooms, and the less luxurious crew rooms.  The ship's hold was empty,
other than a few expected items like spare ropes and tools.  There
were no other crew.  In a lounge, Jason found a bloated woman statue
in a display cabinet, along with books on astronomy, astrology,
science, and engineering.  In an locked, opulent, bedroom (the only
locked room on the ship), Jason found a booby-trapped wooden cabinet
containing five cylindrical ivory cases, a book **True Magick**, some
particularly ornate cult robes, and a medallion bearing Chinese
characters.

Jason then left the ship.  Wilhelmina had persuaded the thin man to
take her to a nearby bar to dry off near the fireplace.  Everyone
returned to the hotel.

Musgrave examined the ivory cases, and found they contained scrolls
written in Chinese, and worked out they must be over 2,000 years old.
Musgrave also examined the **True Magick** book, which had been
rebound in red silks bearing Chinese-style mythological creatures, and
worked out that it would be from about the 17th century.

You decided to go see Mr. Lung the following day, to see if he could
translate the scrolls or tell you anything about the medallion.

### 18th of May, 1925

You went to see Mr. Lung.  You showed him one of the scrolls, and
after examining it for a while he said that this was only part of a
collection.  You gave him the rest of the scrolls, and with some
difficulty he figured out their order as well as their general topic:
lost ancient continents.  He said that a translation would be
difficult, because the language had changed a lot since the scrolls
were written, he estimated three or four weeks.  Musgrave paid him a
generous retainer, and asked him to work on the translation.  You then
took out the medallion, at which Mr. Lung drew back and became clearly
uncomfortable.  When pressed, he explained that those were the
characters of the Cult of the Bloated Woman, of which he knew a
little.  He then told you more or less what you already knew from the
library.  He said the medallion was a bad omen.

You then went to a cafe to get some lunch.  While you were there, Jack
Brady arrived, to tell you that everything was ready and to come to
the warehouse.  He disappeared as suddenly as he had arrived.

You went to the Firm Action warehouse, and were shown to Jack Brady's
office.  Inside the office were Jack Brady, Chu Min, the "drunken"
Japanese man from the Stumbling Tiger Bar, and an old man wearing
traditional clothing you didn't know.  Jack Brady introduced the old
man as Mu Hsien, the translator.  He introduced the Japanese man as
Captain Isoge Taro of the Imperial Japanese Navy, who had agreed to
help out.

Jack outlined the situation.  The good news is that the ritual has
been translated[^may18_1], the bad news is that Firm Action spies had
reported significantly increased cult activity on the island.  It
seems they were planning to do something big in the next few days,
involving a device Aubrey Penhew has been constructing in the volcano,
and so Jack didn't want to wait.  He said that this could be a
blessing in disguise though, as with so many people---some
white---many of whom have never met before it should be fairly easy to
slip in with disguises.

[^may18_1]: You got a copy as a handout.

He outlined his plan.  Jack would lead a team of Firm Action members
to the opposite side of the volcano to the village, where they would
perform the ritual.  This would last all night.  You would infiltrate
the volcano base and disable the device and, if possible, kill Aubrey
Penhew.  Isoge Taro would call down a naval bombardment on the island
after you had had time to reach the volcano, to cause panic.

At this point Isoge Taro interrupted, and clarified that he didn't
believe in any of this magic business, but that he had seen plans
stolen by the Firm Action spies, and agreed that some sort of weapon
was being constructed.  He said that the Imperial Japanese Navy could
not allow a weapon installation in the South China Sea, and that is
the only reason he is involved.

In the early evening you embarked on the day-long journey to Gray
Dragon Island.

### 19th of May, 1925

As you approach the island, Jack's ship changed course to approach the
far side of the volcano, leaving you by yourselves.  During the
journey Clarissa read **True Magick**.

Your ship pulled up to a rickety wooden pier, where a few other boats
were tied up.  The island was not a welcoming sight: mostly cinders,
sand, and stunted palm trees.  Steam vents dotted the ground.  You
looked up and could see the volcano cone, towering above the rest of
the island.

You went towards the village, and saw a dismal collection of thatched
huts huddling together beneath the trees.  A few villagers milled
around.  You saw a group of a dozen or so cultists heading up the path
to the volcano, and followed them.

You followed the twisting trail about 50m up to an entrance in the
side of the volcano.  The entrance was decorated with the Order's
characters.  The entrance lead to a long stone staircase, descending
another 70m.  The staircase lead to a large open chamber, full of
activity.

The chamber was packed with dozens of people.  It was a rough cylinder
50m high, tapering to a hole through which you could see the sky.  The
walls were coated in slimy fungi.  In the centre of the chamber was a
large device, like a large bullet, with tasteful Art Deco designs
worked into the exterior, held by metal girders over a pit of lava
glowing orange, yellow, purple, green, and blue.  The device was
tended to by some cultists wearing more work-practical robes, who were
using cigar-shaped devices which emitted blinding light.

A dozen thin-looking people wearing black head dresses carried buckets
of bubbling black liquid from a pool to the lava pit.  There were
three creatures, with greyish-green skin, white bellies, scaly backs;
humanoid but with the heads of fish with great bulging eyes, and
palpitating gills in the necks.  Two of these creatures held tridents
and were shepherding the thin people[^may19_1].  The third creature,
significantly larger, held globs of grey slime in its hands and was
waving them around as if directing traffic.  Across from the pool of
bubbling black liquid was a pool of clean-looking water.

[^may19_1]: Who you guessed to be human slaves.

Also in the room was a large statue of the bloated woman, much taller
than a person, facing the wall.  Hundreds of severed human arms hung
from its tentacles.  Its base was stained with blood.  Near the
entrance was a pile of boxes.  There were a few doorways, only one
with actual doors.

Wilhelmina and Jason saw that Carson was about to lose it at the sight
of all this, and Jason managed to clamp a hand over Carson's mouth
before he could draw attention.

Able to move fairly freely, due to the amount of people in the room
looking at the statue or the device, Jason and Arthur made their way
to the pile of crates and examined one of the devices used by the
worker-cultists.

<aside class="highlight">
Jason gains the Firearms (Alien Welding Device) skill at 10%.
</aside>

Then the naval bombardment began, and the room erupted into panic and
chaos.  Many cultists started making their way to the exit.

Taking advantage of the chaos, you started planting sticks of dynamite
at the bases of the metal girders supporting the device above the lava
pit.  Clarissa was noticed by the large fish-person, but before it
could do anything Carson smacked it over the head with a crowbar.  The
pool of bubbling black slime exploded into the room.

A large glob of black slime, holding itself together in a rough
sphere, constantly undulating and forming appendages which last for a
second before being reabsorbed and reformed into something else,
emerged from the pool.  Everyone but you and the fish people had now
fled the room.  The fish people leapt into the pool of water and
disappeared.

Horrified by what had been unleashed, Carson let out a scream.

<aside class="highlight">
Carson gains myxophobia.
</aside>

The doors slammed open, and a man strode out.  Arthur recognised Roger
Penhew.  Penhew took stock of the situation, raised his arm, and
shouted a command.  The liquid creature was hurled against the wall.
Penhew looked totally absorbed in the strain of keeping the creature
under control.

Arthur tried to tear his gaze away from the creature, to continue the
mission.  But he panicked, dropped the dynamite without lighting it,
and ran through the doors Penhew came from, slamming them behind him.
Arthur found himself in a workroom with books, intricate mechanisms,
and papers written in an unknown alphabet scattered everywhere.  On
the wall as a chronometer of the same make as the one in the Ju-Ju
House, set to GMT.  When he calmed down enough to have a proper look
around, Arthur found Penhew's diaries, which he grabbed.

The dropped stick of dynamite had rolled next to the girder it was
supposed to destroy, so Jason shot at it, blowing it up.  The other
sticks of dynamite also started to explode.  The device started to
list over into the lava.

The explosions broke Penhew's concentration.  The creature surged
forward and engulfed him.

Arthur managed to muster the courage to leave the room, and ran around
the creature to join up with the others near the exit.  You all
started to run up the stairs, and heard the creature behind you start
to move.  Turning around you saw it had dropped Penhew's dead and
partially digested body, as it moved towards you.  You ran, as the
remaining dynamite exploded, and the device fell into the lava.

At the surface you dropped all your remaining dynamite, lit, and
clambered down the side of the volcano to the beach as it exploded
behind you.  Nothing pursued.

After a little while, the ship came to pick you back up.  You then
sailed around to the far side of the island to collect the other team.

While waiting for them, you looked through Penhew's diaries, which
talked about constructing the device, and made frequent mention to
Robert Huston in Australia.

### End

This is the end of this chapter.  Bonus sanity points are:

- `+1d4` for breaking up the Order of the Bloated Woman.
- `+1d8` for destroying Sir Aubrey's rocket.

The next chapter will begin with you arriving in Alexandria.


Egypt session 1, 2019-08-17
---------------------------

As the moon began to set, a little before dawn, you felt a shockwave
pass through the air, and heard a terrible inhuman screech from the
direction of the volcano.  The boat captain said "it's time", and set
sail for the far side of the island, to collect Jack Brady.  You heard
a loud splash from the island, as if something large fell into the
sea.

About half an hour later the ship had pulled in to the island again
and you saw Jack Brady, Chu Min, and their Firm Action companions,
clambering across the rocky beach.  Jack was covered in blood, but
rebuffed Carson's offer to examine him, saying "it's not needed, the
job is done."  That much blood must have come from a significant
wound, but neither Jack nor any of the others showed any obvious signs
of injury, though they all looked incredibly tired.  There was just
the blood.

On the journey back to Shanghai, Jack opened up a little, saying that
the ritual had been a success, "the Order won't be using that island
for a while", he said, and "did you hear that cry around dawn?  We
must have cast something out."

A few days after the events on Gray Dragon Island, you met up with
Jack again, to tell him you were going to Egypt, to continue following
Jackson Elias' footsteps.  "Elias was a good man", he said, "I hope
you don't end up like he did.  As for me, my work here in Shanghai is
done.  The Order is broken up, which is good, but there are now a lot
of people out for my blood.  I'm going to go to Roger, lay low in Hong
Kong.  If you're going to Egypt, you should take this," he hands
Musgrave the fragment of the Eye of Light and Darkness from the Red
Pyramid, "I don't think you can fix this, but maybe you can make a new
one."

You booked passage on the Voiture du Mer, a French steamer heading to
Alexandria, a journey of 20 days.  Once in Alexandria you can get a
train to Cairo.

You had some opportunity to relax on the crossing.

<aside class="highlight">
All gain `1d6` Sanity.
</aside>

As with the London to Shanghai voyage, Clarissa spent most of her time
reading: this time **True Magick**, and **Aubrey Penhew's diaries**.

<aside class="highlight">
Clarissa gains 5 Cthulhu Mythos points; loses `1d8` sanity; and can
make Hard INT rolls to try to learn up to two of these three spells:

- A spell to visit upon thy foe a blood pestilence, which must be cast
  at night and requires sacrificing some of your blood in payment.
- A spell to call down a great winged steed, which can be cast at
  night when the star Aldebaran is above the horizon.  October to
  March are the best times of year for that, any week outside that
  time will require a Luck roll.
- A spell to convey thy prayers to the Great Gods, which requires a
  flute, but can be cast at any time.  The author's description of
  this spell notes how tired someone is after casting it.

Rolls, including for any spells you didn't try to learn, can be
retried at a rate of one per week, if you have had some down time in
that week to study the book.

I'm house ruling the timing on this book reading and spell learning
stuff, because otherwise you'd only be able to properly read maybe two
books in the whole campaign.
</aside>

---

Egypt was the first stop of the Carlyle Expedition.  They went to
Cairo, and then conducted digs in nearby Giza, Saqqara, and Dashur.
Dashur is where Roger Carlyle destroyed the Eye of Light and Darkness
atop the Red Pyramid, and where all the expedition members but Jack
Brady disappeared inside the Bent Pyramid, to emerge... changed.
Jackson Elias also went to Cairo, after having spoken to Jack Brady,
though it seems he didn't stay for long.  Leads you have in Cairo are:

- Warren Besart, who acted as Roger Carlyle's purchasing agent for
  "singular curios", in 1919.
- Faraz Najjar, who sold the curios to Warren Besart.

Cairo in 1925 is an old city trying to modernise.  Horse-drawn
carriages are common, but so are taxis, and there's an extensive tram
network.  Trains run from Cairo to all the major nearby historical
sites, including Giza, Saqqara, and Dashur.  Hiring cars, and drivers
if you need them, is possible if you want to go further afield.  The
tomb of Tutankhamun was opened a few years ago, in November of 1922,
and has sparked a wave of Egyptomania across the entire world.  As far
away as America, many people wear Egyptian-style jewellery and
tarbouches; and Egypt itself is experiencing a tourism boom.  Cairo,
originally called El Kahira and built in 968AD after the Islamic
conquest, now has a population of 850,000, of which one in ten is
foreign.  Palaces and mosques litter the city, and it's said that you
can study all there is to study about Arabic art without ever leaving
Cairo.  The Old City is a maze of narrow winding streets, with the
upper floors of the buildings on either side leaning overhead, casting
the streets into shadows; and bustling open market squares.  Many
Cairenes are very poor, with beggars on every street corner.  The
currency is the Egyptian pound, which is equivalent to the British
pound, or five US dollars.  The primary language is Arabic, with
French being used in learned societies, and English being very
uncommon.  The dominant religion is Islam, with a small minority of
Coptic Christians.  The weather is hottest from June to August, with
daily highs of 40C not uncommon.  Strenuous outdoor physical activity
is a bad idea for your health.

Professor Musgrave knows a bit more about Egypt and Cairo than the
rest of you.  Musgrave, you know that the Egyptian authorities have
been cracking down on the exporting of archaeological finds, unless
you have a proper licence; so bringing anything you find out of Egypt
will be tricky.  The body which issues these licences is the Egyptian
Museum, and of course there's a thriving black market trade---or so
you hear.  You've previously had dealings with Dr. Ali Kafour,
custodian of the occult and religious library of the Egyptian Museum,
who you consulted about some research you were doing.  You've never
met, but you have a friendly correspondence.  You know that
communicating with the locals, or even just getting around in Cairo,
is almost impossible without either speaking Arabic, or employing a
*dragoman*, which is a local guide.  The more reputable hotels can
generally find someone reliable, who won't take you down a back alley
and rob you.  You've previously stayed in the Hotel du Nord and the
Semiramis.  You also know that the dust storm season lasts from March
to June, so you've arrived just at the tail end of that, which should
make any desert excursions easier.

---

It's now the 12th of June.  You've just disembarked in the port of
Alexandria, and are standing in the queue for customs, where they're
checking random bags for weapons.  What do you do?

### 12th of June, 1925

The Alexandrian customs officers randomly inspected Jason's bag,
finding and confiscating his guns.  The rest of you escaped notice.
After passing through customs you boarded the train to Cairo.

Your first impression upon leaving Cairo station was how busy it was:
the wide open streets, bordered by palm trees, were packed with people
as far as the eye could see.  You could hear the shouts of street
vendors in a variety of languages, and just outside the station a
group of beggars sat in a row shaking bowls of coins at passers-by.

As you stepped out into the street, a group of men waving flyers for
hotels, all trying to shout over each other, accosted you.  One
well-dressed young man, taller than the rest, shouldered his way
through the throng and bowed deeply to you.  "Good day to you and
welcome to Cairo.  My name is Ibi Moussa.  If you have yet to arrange
your accommodation, may I suggest the Hotel du Sud?" he said in
accented and near-flawless English.  Without waiting for your reply he
said "Please, permit me to take care of your luggage for you", he
gestured at some street urchins, and they grabbed your bags and began
to stride through the crowd, Ibi included.

You followed after through the crowd as best you could, and soon found
yourselves at the Hotel du Sud: tired looking, with out-of-fashion
decor and peeling paint.  The manageress introduced herself as Madame
Patenaude, as the urchins stood expectantly waiting for tips.  Arthur,
Wilhelmina, and Carson decided to take rooms here.  Clarissa and Jason
went off to the Semiramis hotel instead.  The rooms at the Hotel du
Sud are as plain and unimpressive as the rest of the hotel.  None of
your three rooms were adjacent, though you didn't see any other
guests.  In contrast, the Semiramis is opulent, lavishly decorated,
and expensive.

Each group decided to do some independent investigation.

Clarissa and Jason first went clothes shopping, and then to find Faraz
Najjar on the Street of Jackals.  The Semiramis supplied them with
Saleem Naziz, a dragoman, to help navigate the city.

In the Street of Jackals you saw a burned down building, clearly quite
old ruins, odd given how dense the surrounding city is.  You noticed
people didn't linger in front of it, and made a sign of warding when
they passed it.  You went into a linen shop to ask the shopkeeper,
through Saleem, if he knew anything about Faraz Najjar.  You learned
that the burned out building had been the shop of Faraz Najjar, and
that it was destroyed by a hideous demon five or six years ago.  The
shopkeeper said people believed Faraz Najjar to be cursed, and don't
like to deal with him.  But despite that, Faraz Najjar has set up a
new shop near the Khan el-Khalili bazaar.

Next Jason and Clarissa went there and, down the nearby Street of
Potters, found Faraz Najjar's new shop.  You all went into the shop,
and were greeted warmly by Faraz Najjar, who encouraged you to look
around.  You noticed that he kept one side of his face turned away
from you as he spoke, and conspired to move around the shop so that at
least one of you would see.  You saw that he had terrible burns.  You
began to ask him about Warren Besart, and his demeanour changed
immediately, he began to splutter, and asked you to leave his shop.
Undeterred, Jason pressed forward, and Faraz Najjar drew a jewelled
scimitar from behind the counter as he began to curse at you in
Arabic.  You decided to leave quickly, as a small crowd was starting
to form outside the shop.

You then asked Saleem to take you to a newspaper archive.  He took you
to the Cairo Bulletin, back near the Semiramis.  Nigel Wassif, the
editor, let you look through the archives.  You found:

- Articles about the Carlyle Expedition during their stay in Cairo.
  It said that they conducted digs in Giza, Saqqara, and Dashur to
  investigate the Third Dynasty.  Speculation and rumours arose about
  the expedition's "true purpose", as those locations are not
  associated with the Third Dynasty.  Then, in July 1919, the
  expedition departs for Kenya on holiday.  There were rumours that
  Roger Carlyle fell ill.  Aubrey Penhew said that the Egyptian summer
  was too hot for Roger, and also that the seasonal flood of the Nile
  would obscure an important dig site for several months, so there was
  no point in staying.  You noticed that a photo of Hypatia Masters,
  printed in June 1919, was actually taken in May 1919.  There were no
  photos of Hypatia Masters which had definitely been taken after May.

  You asked Nigel Wassif about the expedition, he said that they had
  been "simply horrid" in how they kept the press away from their
  digs, being unusually hostile and secretive.

- There is currently a Penhew Foundation-funded dig going on in Giza,
  led by a Dr. Henry Clive.  The Clive Expedition unearthed a mummy
  from the smaller of the three Great Pyramids, which disappeared
  under mysterious circumstances while under guard.  The police have
  failed to find the mummy.  Wassif has heard rumours that one of the
  expedition members, a Dutch archaeologist called Janwillem van
  Heuvelen, was fired for incompetence.  Janwillem can't afford travel
  back to Europe, and is said to be living in some poor part of Cairo
  currently.

- An article about the burning of Faraz Najjar's shop, at roughly the
  right date, which the police blamed on carelessness and an oil lamp.

While Jason and Clarissa were investigating Faraz Najjar, Arthur,
Carson, and Wilhelmina visited the Egyptian Museum to pay a visit to
the occult library managed by Arthur's contact, Dr. Ali Kafour.

After exchanging pleasantries with Dr. Kafour, Musgrave took out the
fragment of the Eye of Light and Darkness.  Dr. Kafour recognised the
Egyptian design, and sketched a possible completion of the symbol on a
piece of paper, saying it would have been a powerful warding symbol.
He said that it must have come from the Red Pyramid, based on the
colour of the stone.  He asked where you got it, and Musgrave told the
story.

Dr. Kafour revealed that he was something of an occultist himself, and
was familiar with some of what Musgrave had told him.  In particular:

- He had met Jackson Elias, who came to ask about the Carlyle
  Expedition.  They had a short meeting, and arranged another, but
  Jackson never showed up to the second meeting.

- Dr. Kafour believed that the Carlyle Expedition had uncovered a
  secret relating to the Black Pharaoh, which had led to their
  slaughter in Egypt, though their being alive suggests they are in
  league with the Black Pharaoh, which is corroborated by what the
  investigators discovered about the Penhew Foundation.  When Sir
  Aubrey came to Egypt, he did not seek out Dr. Kafour despite the two
  having corresponded before, and in fact rudely rebuffed Dr. Kafour
  when he visited the dig site.  Sir Aubrey also looked younger than
  he had previously.

- Since the Carlyle Expedition, there have been 10 Foundation
  expeditions to Egypt, the latest of which is the Clive Expedition,
  and amongst them there have been 20 deaths, disappearances,
  suicides, and a case of madness.  Most have been as secretive as the
  Carlyle Expedition.

Dr. Kafour also told you the legend of the Black Pharaoh, which goes
as follows.  At the end of the Third Dynasty a powerful sorcerer
called Nephren-Ka came to Egypt from the city of Irem, the City of
Pillars, which is described in the **Al Azif** (also known as the
**Necronomicon**).  Nephren-Ka revived the worship of an old god
called the Black Pharaoh and, in the minds of the people, Nephren-Ka
and the Black Pharaoh were mixed together, making it difficult to
distinguish what each one did exactly.  For many years Nephren-Ka /
the Black Pharaoh fought with the successors of the Third Dynasty for
control of Egypt, but no records remain from that period.  For a time,
Nephren-Ka ruled.  Then Sneferu overthrew him to found the Fourth
Dynasty with the aid of the goddess Isis.  Sneferu ordered all trace
of the Black Pharaoh stricken from the land, and his worshippers were
driven from Egypt into Sudan.  A pyramid was built at Meidum to
contain Nephren-Ka's body, and to ensure he could never rise again.
This first pyramid collapsed, and a second pyramid under construction
was repurposed to hold the body.  This is the Bent Pyramid at Dashur,
though no trace of a body has been found inside; a second pyramid at
Dashur, the Red Pyramid, as said to ward the area so that Nephren-Ka
could never rise.  Later, in the Sixth Dynasty, it's rumoured that
Queen Nitocris was in league with the worshippers of the Black
Pharaoh, though there is no concrete evidence of this, but Dr. Kafour
believes it to be true.

Dr. Kafour said that "Black Pharaoh" is a title, and that he was
sometimes known by the name Nyarlathotep.  He believes that
Nyarlathotep was merely a part of a pantheon of ancient gods he calls
the Outer Gods, which are described in the **Necronomicon**.  He
offered to show you a version of the Arabic original, the **Al Azif**,
in the museum archives, which you took him up on.

Dr. Kafour took you to the archives, a huge room with thick steel
walls, a combination lock, and a magical ward.  Dr. Kafour confessed
as he undid the ward that his interest in the occult was more than
just a passing curiosity, though he felt he hardly needed to justify
that to people who had been through what you had.  Musgrave and Kafour
spent the rest of the afternoon slowly working through the Arabic
text.

That evening, after you were all asleep in your rooms, you were all
awoken by flames, about the size of a human head, levitating above
your chests.  The flames descended onto you to burn you but, in the
burning, you also felt a weakness as if you were being
drained[^jun12].  The creatures were very hot, though only Musgrave
took significant burns before escaping.  As you escaped from your
rooms, the creatures began to set them alight.  A conveniently placed
fire extinguisher in the Semiramis allowed Jason and Clarissa to
destroy their fires, but the Hotel du Sud was burned to the ground,
leaving Jason, Musgrave, and Wilhelmina with nowhere to stay.

[^jun12]: Magic point loss.


Egypt session 2, 2019-08-31
---------------------------

<aside class="highlight">
We've got a new player, who is taking over the NPC Janwillem van
Heuvelen, who has been retconned into a woman called Janneke van
Heuvelen, but otherwise is the same.  As you didn't meet Janneke last
session we're going to have a time-skip of a few days, which I'll
cover in the recap.  So, without further ado...
</aside>

Last session you arrived in Cairo, the first destination of the
Carlyle Expedition.  As you often do, you split the party and did some
independent investigation: Jason and Clarissa went to track down Faraz
Najjar, who you knew sold some artefacts to Roger Carlyle via his
agent Warren Besart.  You found Faraz Najjar's shop destroyed, locals
said by a fire demon, and you were chased from his new shop when you
started to ask about the past.  Musgrave, Carson, and Wilhelmina
visited Dr. Ali Kafour, Musgrave's academic contact, at the Egyptian
Museum and heard the legend of the Nyarlathotep the Black Pharaoh, and
got to see the museum's copy of the **Al Azif**, the Arabic original
of the famed **Necronomicon**.

You also learned that the Clive Expedition, another Penhew
Foundation-funded expedition, has been conducting digs in Giza, and
had a mummy disappear several weeks ago under mysterious
circumstances.  Janneke was part of that expedition, but was fired for
being drunk on site one too many times and, lacking the funds to
return to Europe, remained in Cairo.

That night you were attacked in your hotel rooms by levitating balls
of fire.  Jason and Clarissa managed to extinguish their fires, but
the rest of you weren't so lucky.  The Hotel du Sud, where Musgrave,
Carson, and Wilhelmina were staying, burned to the ground.

And now for the time skip.

The next day, after meeting up and discussing the events of the night,
you realised that you must have been followed to your hotels.  You
decided to regroup at the Semiramis and keep an eye out, see if anyone
was watching you.  It was hard to tell with the large crowds, but you
didn’t notice anyone suspicious.  That night you were attacked again.
Clarissa awoke to the sound of her window being broken, and saw a
figure, like an ape with spindly arms and a too-long face with
too-large eyes clambering in to the room, with another peering in from
behind it.  A phenomenal amount of sand cascaded from its hairless
body, heaping up on the carpeted floor.  Fortunately, Clarissa had
anticipated that she might need to escape in the night, and had gone
to bed wearing her day clothes.  She jumped out of her bed, but felt
oddly calm, with no desire to run. She looked at the creature, now
fully inside the room and rising to its full height, and felt a wave
of power well up inside her body.  The creature leapt towards her, and
exploded into a mountain of sand with a clap of thunder.  A moment
later, the creature still outside the window exploded as
well. Clarissa sank to the floor, suddenly exhausted, and she sank
into unconsciousness...

<aside class="highlight">
You have unlocked the "Spontaneous use of Cthulhu Mythos" optional
rule, but don't expect it to go so well every time.
</aside>

Jason and Carson were the first to arrive, drawn by the noise, but
couldn't gain entry to the locked room.  A few minutes later the
hotel's night watchman arrived.  After getting no response from
shouting and banging on the door, he unlocked the room.  Inside the
room, the floor and all the flat surfaces were coated with a thick
layer of sand.  Clarissa lay unconscious on the floor, her arms and
legs covered in small cuts.  As Carson tended to her injuries, Jason
and the night watchman looked around the room.  Peering down from the
open window of the third storey room, Jason saw that the street
beneath also had a dusting of sand.

The next day, the hotel manager regretfully informed you that, while a
mysterious fire could potentially be overlooked, two mysterious
happenings in two nights could not.  You would have to leave.
Determined to lose whoever had followed you, you went into the Old
City.  You found lodgings in a small guesthouse, the owner spoke no
English but you were able to get across that you had money and needed
rooms, and that seemed enough for him.  The next night came and went
without incident.

The following morning Musgrave was looking out of his window and saw,
amongst the crowd of dark-skinned Egyptians, a white woman.  She saw
Musgrave too.  After staring at each other for a few moments, each
equally out-of-place in this poor district, Musgrave ventured to shout
"hello!".  And that is how you met Janneke van Heuvelen.

---

It is late morning on the 15th of June.  You've all exchanged names,
and gone to a nearby cafe for some coffee, Janneke ordering for you in
Arabic.  What do you do?

### 15th of June, 1925

You spent a few hours in the cafe talking, mostly about the
discoveries and members of the Clive Expedition.  Janneke told you
about the mysterious disappearance of the mummy, which Dr. Clive had
identified as Nitocris, and how there were no tracks or marks showing
how a large sarcophagus was removed from the pyramid.

During your conversation, you became aware of a group of cats watching
you.  When Janneke noticed, she chased them away and said that Cairo
was full of them; cats everywhere, as far as the eye can see.  This
struck you as odd, as you hadn't noticed a large amount of cats.  Even
after the cats had been chased off, Janneke was able to easily spot
some more hiding nearby, watching you.

Eventually you decided to split up and continue your previous
investigations.  Janneke decided to tag along with you.

Carson, Musgrave, and Clarissa returned to the Egyptian Museum and met
up with Dr. Kafour, who had been worried at their absence the past
couple of days.  You described your experience with the floating
fires, and he recognised the creatures.  He taught you all a hand
gesture called the Voorish Sign, said to improve magical spells and to
ward off evil creatures.  He also taught Clarissa a spell to bind a
fire vampire---the floating fires which visited you in the night---to
her will.  You asked him if there was any way to figure out who had
sent them, but he said that fire vampires can travel quite large
distances away from their controller.  By the time you left, it was
the evening.

Jason, Janneke, and Wilhelmina went to Faraz Najjar's shop.  Before he
could chase you out, you managed to persuade him that you had also
been attacked by the fire demon, and that you should talk.  He
arranged to meet you at the al-Hussein Mosque down the street in a few
hours time, as he only felt safe talking about such things on holy
ground.

The chosen hour came around, and you met Faraz Najjar outside the
mosque.  He took you in to a small meeting room and, through a
combination of his basic English and Janneke's basic Arabic, told his
story.  He said that Warren Besart had approached him about some
artefacts in his possession.  The artefacts were an ancient scroll
detailing the entrance to a hidden room in an unnamed pyramid, a bust
of the Black Pharaoh, and a circlet set with a large zircon, said to
be the crown of the Black Pharaoh and the key to his triumph over
death.  You pressed him, and he admitted that he had stolen the
artefacts, and believed that the cult had sent the fire demon as
revenge.  He doesn't know where Warren Besart is now, and hasn't been
in contact with him since then.

Jason, Janneke, and Wilhelmina noticed they were being followed by
cats.


Egypt session 3, 2019-09-14
---------------------------

Last session you met Janneke van Heuvelen, ex-member of the Clive
Expedition and disliker of cats.  Janneke told you the story of the
disappearance of the mummy from Giza, which Dr. Clive identified as
Nitocris, but the papers have said was unidentified.  You spent the
afternoon tracking down Faraz Najjar and learning magic from
Dr. Kafour.  Faraz Najjar told you that he sold to Warren Besart an
ancient scroll detailing the entrance to a hidden room in an unnamed
pyramid, a bust of the Black Pharaoh, and a circlet set with a large
zircon, said to be the crown of the Black Pharaoh and the key to his
triumph over death.  However, he had had no contact with Warren Besart
since that exchange, and he couldn't tell you where to find Besart
now.

If you're stuck for ideas about finding Warren Besart, remember that
the Idea Roll is always an option.

It is now the morning of the 16th of June, and you've all gathered at
the cafe again.  On her way there, Janneke was attacked by a cat and
got scratched.  What do you do?

### 16th of June, 1925

Jason, Janneke, and Wilhelmina went to the black market, with some
money borrowed from Carson, to buy guns.  While there Jason asked an
antiques dealer if they knew anything about Warren Besart.  For a
small fee, the dealer was able to point them to "the red door" on the
Street of Scorpions, though they said that they hadn't seen Warren
Besart in some time.

You arrived at the Street of Scorpions, and found the one red door: a
clothes shop.  The shopkeeper said he didn't know a Warren Besart, but
Wilhelmina noticed him glance over at a curtained doorway.  You made
your way over to the curtain, and looked behind it to find a
filthy-looking man sprawled out on a dirty bed.  The shopkeeper didn't
seem too inclined to keep you away or to defend the man.  The man made
a token resistance, but quickly gave up and lit a foul-smelling pipe.
He confirmed he was Warren Besart, and agreed to tell his story:

- After being contacted by a lawyer, he bought artefacts for Roger
  Carlyle from Faraz Najjar---his description of the artefacts matched
  Najjar's---and shipped them illegally to London.
- When the Carlyle Expedition came to Egypt he met with them and
  arranged all of their permits.  He then went on the expedition with
  them in case there were local difficulties.
- One day, Jack Brady came to him and said that everyone had
  disappeared and the diggers had run off.  His story matched Jack
  Brady's, though Jack didn't mention Warren Besart to you.
- The day of their return, an old Egyptian woman came to Warren and
  told him that the expedition principals had lost their souls, they
  had consorted with an ancient evil called the Messenger of the Black
  Wins.  She told him to go to the Collapsed Pyramid at Meidum the
  night before the new moon to see for himself.
- He went, and saw the same ritual as Jack Brady, but he saw more: a
  huge five-headed creature which swallowed up the dead.  He went mad,
  wandered into the desert, and was found by a man.  The man and his
  mother looked after Warren for two years until he recovered.  But he
  hasn't recovered fully, he only gets by with the aid of drugs.

Through the telling, his voice was level and emotionless, and he took
frequent puffs from his pipe.  You asked him who looked after him, he
said the woman was called Nuri and lived in El Wasta.

When you left the shop, you were struck by how quiet the previously
busy street was.  A beautiful Egyptian woman appeared in the silence,
and demanded that Janneke turn over what she had stolen.  After a
little argument, it became clear that Janneke had taken some scrolls
from a hidden temple of Bast, and that this woman Neris wanted them to
be returned immediately.  Jason intervened and managed to get a week
of leeway---the time Janneke thought it would take to finish her
translation.

Meanwhile, Musgrave, Carson, and Clarissa had been at the museum
talking to Dr. Kafour again.  Dr. Kafour didn't know anything about
the Crown of Nitocris which Faraz Najjar talked about.  He taught
Clarissa how to make an Elder Sign, a powerful ward against evil.

When everyone met up at your rooms and related the events of the day,
you decided it would be best to spend the week taking detailed
photographs of the scrolls, rather than try to get the translation
done and then lose the originals.  Janneke revealed where she had
hidden the scrolls, buried in the dirt floor of her room.  The
photography occupied Jason, Janneke, and Musgrave for the next two
days.

### 18th of June, 1925

At the end of the two days, Janneke led everyone to the hidden temple.
The path was long and winding.  You saw fewer and fewer people, more
and more cats.  Eventually you arrived at the small temple, which
featured an obsidian statue of Bast, with a small compartment at the
feet which Janneke placed the scrolls into.  Musgrave examined the
statue while Jason took some photos.  As you were looking around, a
man arrived.  He seemed surprised to see you, and went to pray at the
statue.  When he was done you asked what he knew about this place and
why he had come: he said that his grandmother had told him about this
place, that he didn't know about some sort of organised Bast cult, and
that he had come to pray for his cat which had been lost for a few
days.

### End

This is the end of the Van Heuvelen side-story (though Janneke is
staying with us).  Bonus sanity points are:

- `+2` for Janneke surviving.


Egypt session 4, 2019-09-30
---------------------------

You came to Egypt on the trail of the Carlyle Expedition, and you've
now heard stories from Jack Brady and Warren Besart about their time
here.  Jack said that Roger Carlyle destroyed an Eye of Light and
Darkness atop the Red Pyramid at Dashur.  Jack and Warren told you
about how the expedition members disappeared inside the Bent Pyramid
the following day, and about the dark ritual they enacted in the
desert after their return.  In New York Clarissa read *Life As A God*,
which described a hidden room inside the Bent Pyramid; and, in a
vision, saw the expedition members entering it.

But it's not just the pyramids of Dashur.  The Collapsed Pyramid at
Meidum is the original burial site of Nephren-Ka before he was moved
to the Bent Pyramid, and the locale of the dark ritual witnessed by
Jack and Warren.  The Pyramid of Mycerinus at Giza is where the Clive
Expedition found and then seemingly lost, without a trace, the mummy
of Queen Nitocris.

It is now the morning of the 19th of June, and the secrets of Egypt's
past beckon.  What do you do?

### 19th of June, 1925

You decided to go to Giza to investigate the missing mummy of
Nitocris.  You took the tram service from Cairo and, after a journey
of an hour, arrived in Giza.  You went to the police station to ask
about the latest on the investigation.

The investigation had been over for several weeks, and the police
hadn't found anything.  They searched the pyramid for secret doors but
found nothing, there were no tracks indicating the sarcophagus had
been moved, and the missing guards hadn't turned up; a complete
failure of a search.  The only thing they had found was a previously
undiscovered burial shaft outside the pyramid, but they dismissed that
because (1) it was outside the pyramid, and (2) it was too narrow to
get a sarcophagus down in any case.  You thanked the officers and set
off to the pyramid.

Outside Mycerinus' pyramid street hawkers and guides were selling
tours to the mysterious room and selling crudely hand drawn maps with
the new room hastily added.  Musgrave began to say he knew a thing or
two about navigating pyramids before Janneke pointed outt hat she had
been in the room, and knew the way.

Arriving in a series of small antechambers preceding the burial
chamber, you began your search for hidden doors and secret
contraptions.  You found nothing.  Nor was there anything in the
burial chamber: just a big empty patch of floor where you would expect
a sarcophagus to be.

You then went out to investigate the burial shaft.  You found it
easily enough from the police description, and peered down into the
darkness.  Too narrow to lower a sarcophagus, but not for a person to
climb down.  You could see a floor down there, and Wilhelmina was
lowered on a rope into a small, square, room which had a walled-up
doorway on each wall.  Wilhelmina shouted up that there was something
down here, and the rest squeezed in.

Jason noticed a breeze from one of the doorways and surmised that
there was something down there.  He and Carson broke down the bricks
over the course of an hour, producing an entrance into a narrow
tunnel.

You stepped out into a dark tunnel with irregular walls and a twisting
route.  You could barely see a few metres ahead before another corner
loomed.  You cautiously proceeded down, and arrived in a much wider
and more regular tunnel: clearly artificial work.  About wide enough
to carry a sarcophagus down.  The tunnel went to the left, ending in a
wall beneath the pyramid, or to the right, disappearing into the
darkness.

You went left.

Musgrave inspected the wall, and found a small lever.  When pulled, a
large section of the wall swung away, revealing the burial chamber you
had just been in.  You surmised that this is how the sarcophagus had
been taken, and turned around, heading down the tunnel into the
darkness.

You had walked about a quarter of a mile along the tunnel, stopping to
peer down the frequent side tunnels, which looked like little more
than natural fissures in the rock, when you heard voices.  You stood
at a crossroads where the main tunnel intersected two of the side
tunnels, and the echo meant you couldn't work out a direction, or any
of the words.

You guessed at a tunnel and headed along it, with Musgrave in the
lead.  The floor and ceiling raised and lowered, the walls twisted,
you had to crouch on occasion, and at one point Musgrave slipped and
fell into a patch of luminous fungi he couldn't scrape off his
clothes.  You emerged into a small chamber with three prison cells.
The cells had metal bars which didn't look particularly rusted, so you
surmised that this must be a recent addition to the tunnels.  The
cells, and the rest of the room, were unoccupied.  You carried on
going.  A little while later you saw a figure by the edge of your
torchlight, but it had disappeared when you spun to look.  Eventually
you emerged back in the main tunnel.

You could see a large doorway in the distance, and cautiously
approached.  The doorway stood three times taller than a man, and
opened onto a staircase of black marble leading down a further 30m.
The staircase connected to an equally black floor.  You descended.

You emerged into a vast room, so large your torch couldn't reach the
far side, and could only just reach the ceiling.  The walls, floors,
and vast pillars holding up the ceiling, were all carved of the same
black marble flecked with white spots that glowed in the light.  A
little inside the room was another staircase, leading down into a
glowing red mist.  You could hear quiet screaming coming up through
the mist, and decided not to continue down.

In the distance you could see a low wall, though it was so far away
you couldn't see beyond it.  As you approached you heard the sounds of
a struggle, a loud splash, and a scream.  You ducked behind one of the
pillars.  You crept closer to see two men, standing next to a large
pool of water (the low wall formed an edge of the pool), with another
man face down in the water.  The gang sprang into action, and attacked
the two men.

The men were surprised, and only armed with knives.  After a brief
struggle one of them had captured, and the other fell into the pool.
As he hit the water it began to froth and splash around him, like when
something fell into a piranha-infested river.  You managed to drag him
out of the water without touching it, and as you did saw a metre-long
black leech detach itself from the man and slink back into the water.
He was covered in bleeding bites, and dead.  The other man was too far
out to reach.

You entertained the idea of interrogating the man, but his crazed
expression suggested that answers would not be forthcoming.  Also he
was on leech-feeding duty, so probably not a very high-ranking
cultist.

Leaving him tied up, you continued to explore the rest of the room.

After a few more minutes of walking, you came across an altar of white
marble, with unlit stone braziers built into each corner, and a
sarcophagus resting atop it.  Musgrave and Jason pried the lid ajar,
and saw that it contained a mummy.

Beyond the altar was a double throne, carved in green stone covered in
depictions of horrifying creatures.  Behind the throne was an enormous
hole in the ground.

Next to the throne but much closer to the wall was an obelisk covered
in hieroglyphics.  Musgrave recognised it to be a ritual chant, and
read it out for the others.  It was Carson who stumbled upon the
correct incantation and, as he said it, the obelisk started to glow
and turned translucent.  Through the obelisk you could see the
surface, and the sphinx.  You moved around the obelisk, and the view
changed accordingly as if you were looking out of a window.  Musgrave
recollected that there is an obelisk near the sphinx where your
vantage point seemed to be, it's as if you were looking out of that.
He tentatively touched the obelisk and, with a little resistance, his
hand passed through it.  Others could see the hand emerging from their
viewpoint.  Musgrave withdrew his hand unharmed.


Egypt session 5, 2019-10-12
---------------------------

There are four pyramids you have leads pointing to: the Red Pyramid at
Dashur, where Roger Carlyle destroyed the Eye of Light and Darkness;
the Bent Pyramid at Dashur, where the expedition members disappeared;
the Collapsed Pyramid at Meidum, where Nephren-Ka was buried before
being moved to the Bent Pyramid; and the Pyramid of Mycerinus at Giza,
where the mummy of Nitocris was found and then lost.

Last session you travelled to Giza and found a network of underground
tunnels, connecting the burial chamber in the pyramid to a vast
underground temple.  You fought two cultists, capturing one and
accidentally killing the other.  You left the captured one behind
while you continued to explore, and you found an obelisk which seems
to act as some sort of gateway to the surface.  Distracted by the
obelisk, you now realise that the captured cultist has been shouting
for help, and you can hear hurrying footsteps.

What do you do?

### 19th of June, 1925 (late afternoon)

You decided to leap through the obelisk to the surface, and from there
find help.  Musgrave went first, as you all cautiously watched the
scene through the obelisk.  You saw Musgrave pass through and emerge,
unharmed, on the other side and take stock of his surroundings.  The
rest followed.

You did not arrive on the surface, the vision through the obelisk was
a lie.  You all found yourselves in a corridor, evidently in a
pyramid, in front of a large asymmetrical arch.  Through the arch you
could see a raised throne and some pillars.

All of you but Wilhelmina stepped through the arch into the room.  The
throne was carved of black stone and encrusted with gems.  The six
pillars each had a gem on top which dazzled in the torchlight.  On the
walls behind the throne were bas-reliefs of symbols, a star chart, a
map of the solar system, and a map of the world.  Clarissa recognised
the room from **Life As A God**.

You decided to examine the bas-reliefs, take pictures, and get out of
there.  Outside the room, Wilhelmina began searching for an exit.

The symbolic bas-relief described the impending birth of the child of
Nyarlathotep within the Mountain of the Black Wind, which you've heard
of before (it's in Kenya), heralded by vast destruction.  This event
is to take place in a couple of months time.  The planetary map showed
an alignment which will next take place on the 14th of January, 1926.
The world map had three gems embedded into it, one in the South China
Sea (about the location of Grey Dragon Island), one in central Kenya,
and one in western Australia.  Across the ocean was drawn a curved
line.

As you examined the bas-reliefs, you heard a grinding noise, and
turned to find the stone wall flowing like water, filling up the arch.
Jason managed to leap through, but everyone else was sealed inside.

Without turning around, without hearing anything, without a
disturbance in the air, you suddenly all knew with absolute certainty
that you were not alone in the room any more.  Musgrave turned around.

Seated on the throne was a man who could only be the Black Pharaoh:
tall, handsome, dressed in the full regalia of a pharaoh, and with a
haughty expression.  The air beside him shimmered as if in a heat
haze, but no heat source was visible.  Suddenly you all felt an
immense mental pressure to bow down and worship.  Musgrave managed to
resist, his knees buckling under the strain, but the rest of you threw
yourselves to the ground.  The Black Pharaoh smiled.  He greeted you
all by name, and asked what you most wanted in the world.  He looked
thoughtful for a moment, and then waved a hand.  A shimmering portal
appeared next to him and he said that if you agreed to serve him, step
through the portal and he would reward you just as you have described.

Nobody took him up on the offer.  The Black Pharaoh's expression
changed to immense irritation, as he berated you for persisting in
your foolish, doomed, quest.  At another wave of his hand, images
appeared in the air showing the members of the Carlyle Expedition
being torn apart by terrible monsters.  Musgrave suffered a bout of
madness at the terrible sight, and flung himself at the Black Pharoah.

The shimmering air beside the Black Pharaoh was dispelled, revealing
two large hovering winged snake-like creatures.  Before Musgrave
reached the Black Pharaoh, the others managed to intercept and wrestle
him to the floor.  The Black Pharaoh mocked you some more, and then
faded away.  The door to the room opened, and you wandered until you
found the exit.

When the room was first sealed, with Wilhelmina and Jason outside, two
creatures like hairless sand-covered apes crawled out of the walls and
attacked.  Managing to push them back a little, Wilhelmina and Jason
ran towards where they thought the exit would be, with the apes
following.  Descending a flight of stairs, Wilhelmina tripped, and an
ape was upon her.  Jason shot it at point-blank range, temporarily
deafening Wilhelmina, and they were able to reach the exit just before
the second ape caught up.  The second ape wouldn't leave the pyramid,
and instead stood watching from the exit.

Taking a step back and looking up at the pyramid, they could see that
this was indeed the Bent Pyramid of Dashur, far south of Giza.

When the Black Pharaoh left, the ape crawled back into the stone.
Shortly afterwards, the others also emerged from the pyramid.

You decided that this evil had to be stopped and, as you were now at
Dashur, you could try to restore the Eye of Light and Darkness atop
the Red Pyramid.  You knew most of the ritual from China, but didn't
know who counted as an "innocent" (for the blood of the innocent) or
how to create the symbol in the first place.  Musgrave decided to try
the vision drug.

Musgrave felt like he travelled forward in time, and was floating
above the Red Pyramid as the sun set, looking down.  You were all
there, and also a man Musgrave recognised as a rather dim-witted
librarian from the museum.  Clarissa, looking tired, straightened up
from bending over the pyramid and said "there, I've made the Elder
Sign, I hope this works."  The sun set, and the librarian allowed you
to prick his finger, drawing out a few drops of blood onto the symbol,
as everyone began to chant.  This continued for the entire night, with
more blood added every hour.  As the sun crept over the horizon, the
symbol glowed brilliantly, and faded into the rock.  The vision ended.

Musgrave woke up, and recounted his vision.  You didn't know how you'd
persuade this man to let you have his blood, but you knew it had to be
done.  So you took the next train to Cairo and went to the museum.
You first approached the man directly, without any luck.  You then
went to Dr. Kafour and explained what was going on.  Dr. Kafour said
that the man could probably be tricked into thinking that this is some
re-enactment of a newly discovered ancient ritual and would help make
him known in archaeological circles.  So Dri. Kafour went with you
back to the man and took that angle.  Motivated by the potential of
fame, he agreed, and you all returned to Dashur.

Dr. Kafour helped you set up, and then said that he would wait at the
base of the pyramid, to keep an eye on the Bent Pyramid.  The sun
began to set, and you conducted the ritual Musgrave had seen in his
vision.  When it was over, everyone felt very tired and drained, as if
it had cost something you could not see.

You then discussed your next steps with Dr. Kafour.  You decided that
you should go to Kenya ASAP due to the prophecy, but that the Clive
Expedition was on the way back to Cairo and that you could check out
what was going on there, to see if they knew anything about the secret
passage and the mummy of Nitocris.  Dr. Kafour agreed to visit the dig
site with you.


## Egypt session 6, 2019-10-26

Last session you found yourselves transported to the Bent Pyramid.
There you met the Black Pharaoh, who offered you whatever your heart
most desired if only you would serve him.  For some reason none of you
took him up on the offer.  While there you read a prophesy about the
impending birth of the child of Nyarlathotep in the Mountain of the
Black Wind, and decided to wrap things up in Egypt and head to Kenya
and to the mountain as quickly as you could.

After escaping the wrath of the Black Pharaoh, you took some of the
vision drug to try to learn how to recreate the Eye of Light and
Darkness atop the Red Pyramid.  You saw yourselves in the future, and
rushed to Cairo to get the help you needed.  That evening you,
Dr. Kafour, and a fairly dim librarian, embarked on the ritual.

It's now the morning of the 20th of June.  You've been up all night
chanting and having your magical energy drained.  And you're still in
Dashur.

What do you do?

### 20th of June, 1925 (afternoon)

You took the train from Dashur up to Membis, and disembarked with
Dr. Kafour to go to the Clive Expedition dig site.  You hired a jeep,
and Dr. Kafour was able to guide you to the site.

You arrived at the impressively fortified and guarded dig site,
needing only landmines and machine guns to be up to the standards of
the Great War, and were trying to talk your way in when Johanna Specht
happened to be passing by and recognised Janneke.  You said that you
had important news to share with Dr. Clive, and Johanna took you to a
large tent in the centre of the camp to meet him.

Dr. Clive welcomed Dr. Kafour and "his friends", who Dr. Kafour
introduced.  You had brief Dr. Kafour beforehand on what you wanted to
learn from Dr. Clive, so Dr. Kafour began by saying that a hidden
passage had been discovered in the Pyramid of Mycerinus, connecting
the burial room where the mummy was taken to a network of underground
tunnels.  Dr. Clive affected surprised, but you could tell this was
put on.

Dr. Clive offered to show Dr. Kafour and Prof. Musgrave the scrolls he
found in the burial chamber, which you agreed to.  He also suggested
that the rest of you have a look around the dig site, saying that
dusty old parchments covered in hieroglyphics are not to everyone's
interest.  At that moment, Martin Winfield appeared, and Dr. Clive
asked him to show the rest of you around.  Musgrave, Kafour, and
Carson accompanied Clive to a separate tent. in the opposite direction
to the one taken by Martin.

The tend had two guards standing outside, and inside a safe.  Clive
said he wasn't taking any chances this time.  Clive knelt to open the
safe, but seemed to be having some difficulty.  As he was fiddling
with it, Carson realised that one of the guards outside was slowly
drawing the tent flap aside.  He alerted the others, and the guard
leapt in.  A fight began, with Clive on the side of the guards.
Musgrave overcame his fear and used a gun, but failed several times to
hit anyone.  Carson used a machete.  Both Clive and Kafour attempted
to use magic to confuse or disable their foes, but were ineffective.

With a lucky swing, Carson managed to kill the guard, and you ran away
from the tent, in the direction the others had gone.  It took several
minutes to make your way across the busy camp and, as you reached the
others, a tremendous roar erupted behind you, and the ground shook.
You grabbed Martin Winfield and all ran back to the jeep, where you
piled in and Carson took the wheel.

Carson, with his eyes fixed in front of the jeep, drove as fast as he
dare across the sandy road, but it sounded like something was gaining
on you.  The ground shook and boomed, as if something huge were
running after you.  Musgrave and Jason dared to look behind, and fell
back into the jeep in their shock: a huge five headed creature, like
the sphinx but far more massive, chased you.  You thought of Warren
Besart's story.  Musgrave fainted, Jason huddled in his seat.

Shooting guns behind you didn't seem to be having any effect, so
Clarissa tried her hand at magic.  She cast the spell to summon a
flying steed, and it answered her call.  With an unearthly shriek from
the skies, Clarissa felt a mental connection to something far from
human.  A great winged beast soared over the jeep and into the sphinx.
The sphinx stalled and roared as it fought.  A few minutes later it
was back after you, but you had gained a little distance.  A little
while later the city was in sight, and the sphinx stopped chasing.

Carson screeched to a halt and tended to those who had been hurt in
the fight in the camp.  You asked Dr. Kafour about the creature and
whether it was now loose upon Egypt, he shakily answered that there
are many summoning spells, some summon a creature permanently, some
summon it for a fixed time, and there was no real way for you to tell.
You decided that, even if the creature went away on its own, Clive
could just bring it back, and that could not be allowed to happen.

You rested until night, and then snuck back to the dig site.
Examining it from a distance, it looked deserted.  There was no sign
of life.  It looked partly trampled.  You snuck into the camp and
looked around: nothing.  You looked in the central tent, and it looked
like things had been packed up and taken away in a hurry.  Scouting
the outside of the site, you saw truck tracks, heading north.

You followed the tracks through the night, and at dawn found a truck
abandoned near the pyramids of Giza.


## Egypt session 7, 2019-11-09

Last time you decided to pay a visit to the Clive Expedition dig site,
to see what they thought about the secret passage you found in Giza.
Dr. Clive seemed more surprised that you'd found the tunnel than that
it existed, and tried to do away with you first with his goons, then
with a giant monster.  You fled from the site, picking up Martin
Winfield, one of the expedition principals, along the way.

You decided you couldn't leave such a dangerous man free, and that
night snuck back to the site.  You found it abandoned, and it looked
like people had left in a hurry.  There were tire tracks leading
north.  You followed them, and arrived a few hours later in Giza.

It's early morning on the 21st of June, you've barely slept for the
past 48 hours, and you're back at the pyramids.

<aside class="highlight">
To model sleep deprivation, any rolls requiring concentration or
observation (picking locks, finding hidden clues, dodging bullets,
etc) are going to have a penalty die until you get a good 8 hours of
sleep.
</aside>

What do you do?

### 21th of June, 1925

- We decided Carson would reasonably have a stimulant, though it would
  only last for a few hours per person and the cost of coming down
  from it would be two penalty dice on rolls instead of one.

- You went to the entrance to the tunnels, took the stimulants, gave
  Martin Winfield a gun, and headed inside.

- As you approached the temple chamber, you heard an argument.  Clive
  and someone else, who was berating Clive.

- In front of the entrance stood four animal-headed people, as still
  as statues.  They weren't there before.

- You hid down a side corridor and Wilhelmina threw a rock to distract
  them.  It sort of worked: they noticed Wilhelmina, and chased after
  her.

- The rest of you snuck into the room.

- You could see Clive and another man, the other man saying "it's a
  good thing the ritual is tonight!"  In the distance you could hear
  crying.

- As you snuck into the chamber, Martin yelled out for the guards.

- The rest of the session was a fight, in which:
  - Clive and the other man got killed
  - Kafour incapacitated Martin with magic
  - The guards returned, but you killed them
  - Musgrave was paralysed by hysterics
  - Carson hallucinated that Clarissa was his wife
  - Janneke attacked Carson and Clarissa

- You investigated the source of the crying, and found the other
  principals of the Clive Expedition tied up.

<aside class="highlight">
Musgrave is now indefinitely insane.
</aside>

### End

This is the end of this chapter.  Bonus sanity points are:

- `+1d6` for neutralising the leader of the Cult of the Black Pharaoh.
- `+1d4` for saving Agatha Broadmoor.


## Kenya session 1, 2019-11-26

Kenya, the country where the Carlyle Expedition apparently met its
doom.  A country of jungles, mountains, and wild animals; outside the
cities it's another world, and few of the non-urban locals speak
English.  In 1925 the country is a colony of the British Empire, with
Nairobi being the capital city.  It's a heavily segregated and openly
racist society.  Cities are generally based around three districts:
one for white people, one for asian people, and one for black people.
Businesses will often have signs out front saying "for whites only".
Fortunately, you're all white, so you can go more or less where you
please.

You've got two main leads pointing to Kenya: Jackson Elias' **Nairobi
Notes**, and a prophesy that the spawn of Nyarlathotep will be born
soon in the Mountain of the Black Wind.

### 5th of July (afternoon)

Just after noon on Sunday the 5th of July, your ship pulls into
Mombasa.

- Asked around about the Mountain of the Black Wind.  White people
  didn't know what you were talking about, one local was clearly
  disturbed and left your presence.
- Jason took the vision drug, felt drawn to a mountain north of
  Nairobi
- Decided to head to Nairobi to do more investigation.
- Train attacked in the night by fire vampires, you defeat them by
  blowing up the water tank.
- People claimed to have seen the fire vampires descend from the sky,
  can't find a clear lead to a sorcerer on the train.
- Stuck overnight waiting for rescue.


## Kenya session 2, 2019-12-07

Last session you arrived in Mombasa and tried to find some clues about
the Mountain of the Black Wind.  The white people you asked didn't
recognise it but, at the mention of the name, one native hurridly
excused themselves from your company.  Jason took some of the vision
drug, and felt himself drawn to a mountain due north of Nairobi, so
you decided to go and ask around the capital.

On the overnight journey your train was attacked by fire vampires
which descended from the sky.  You defeated them by blowing up the
train's water tank.  Stranded, you and the other passengers had no
choice but to wait next to the Kenyan jungle for hours until your
absence was noticed in Nairobi and a rescue sent.

It's now the morning of the 6th of July.  A replacement train from
Nairobi arrived a short while ago, and the passengers are boarding
while a crew works to repair the stricken train enough that it can be
moved to a station.

What do you do?

### 6th of July (morning)

- Pull into Nairobi on the rescue train
- Review Elias' Nairobi Notes
- Wilhelmina goes to find Sam Mariga at the station, to ask about his
  meeting with Elias:
  - Sam remembers Elias
  - Said he found and reported the massacre site when visiting a
    cousin in the Aberdare Forest
  - Knew of Dr. Horrace Starret, a good man who runs a free hospital
    and school in the slums.
  - Recommended you go talk to Johnstone Kenyatta to learn more about
    folklore and myths
- Rest of you decided to go to Government House and get permits for
  your guns
- Went to meet Johnstone Kenyatta.  Found him in a small office.  Upon
  asking about the Mountain of the Black Wind, he took you into an
  empty room to be more private.  He arranged for you to meet a
  mystic, Old Bundari.
- You went to meet Old Bundari in a village several miles out of
  Nairobi, and his servant had you wait 11 hours for Bundari to return
  "from the other planes", and awaken.
- Bundari greeted you all by name, revealed a detail of your past, and
  some knowledge of your quest.  He answered your questions:
  - The Carlyle Massacre was done by the Cult of the Bloody Tongue
  - The Mountain of the Black Wind is so-called because it's inhabited
    by the God of the Black Wind, which sets out once a year bringing
    death and plague.  White people know it as Mount Satima.
  - The god's priestess is called M'Weru and lives inside the
    mountain.
  - The Eye of Light and Darkness can be used to trap the god within
    the mountain.  Some day the sign had existed until only a few
    years ago, when the god tricked men into destroying it.
  - He can find out who set the fire vampires on you if you come back
    tomorrow.
- Bundari gave you a fly whisk and a strange four-armed lizard which
  he told you to feed daily with flies and to only let out when you
  reached the mountain.

### 7th of July

- You spent the day resting and recuperating.  You got back from
  seeing Old Bundari in the early morning, and had been told to come
  back the next day.

### 8th of July

- You returned to Bundari and he told you that the fire vampires were
  sent by Taan Kaur, owner of a tea shop in the Asian Quarter.
- You went to check out the shop, and saw it was large and busy.  Taan
  Kaur left a few times for food.  In the evening, a group of men
  wearing red headbands entered the shop by a locked side-door and
  stayed a while.
- You followed the men, they went into the Swahili Town to a
  collection of huts with other headband-wearing men.  You decided not
  to push your luck, and returned home.


Kenya session 3, 2020-01-18
---------------------------

You're in Kenya looking for the Mountain of the Black Wind, the home
of the Cult of the Bloody Tongue.  You've been brought here by two
clues: the Carlyle Massacre, which took place in Kenya, and a prophecy
you found in the Bent Pyramid of Dashur, which the Carlyle Expedition
visited and disappeared inside for several hours, about the impending
birth of the child of Nyarlathotep in the Mountain of the Black Wind.

You've been in Kenya for a few days now.  You arrived in Mombasa, and
didn't have much luck asking about the mountain.  You moved on to
Nairobi, and your overnight train was attacked by fire vampires.

When you finally arrived in Nairobi, several hours delayed, you
started to follow up on the leads in Jackson Elias' notes.  Wilhelmina
talked to Sam Mariga, who Elias had interviewed, and who was the one
to discover, or at least report, the massacre site.  He sent you on to
Johnstone Kenyatta, a man who, he said, would be better placed to talk
about folklore and myth.

You met Johnstone in an office of the Kikuyu Central Association
building, a political organisation working to improve the situation
for native Africans in the British Kenya Colony.  As soon as the words
"Mountain of the Black Wind" left your mouth, he ushered you into a
private room and questioned you about your purpose.  Seemingly
satisfied, he sent you on to yet another person, a mystic called Old
Bundari, living in a village outside Nairobi.  A man drove you there,
and handed you over to Okomu, Bundari's attendant.

Okomu took you to Bundari who was unconscious.  Okomu said that
Bundari was visiting "other planes", and that you would need to sit
near him to draw his attention back to this plane.  Eleven hours
passed.  Okomu brought food, but didn't allow you to speak in
Bundari's presence, lest you "draw him back too suddenly."
Eventually, Bundari awoke.

He greeted you all by name, speaking through Okomu acting as
interpreter, and revealed knowledge of your pasts and of your quest.
He said that he would answer your questions.  He told you that the
Carlyle Massacre was performed by the Cult of the Bloody Tongue.  That
the Mountain of the Black Wind is the centre of the Cult of the Bloody
Tongue's religious beliefs, and is so-called because it is home to the
God of the Black Wind, which sets out once a year to spread disease
and death.  The high priestess of the Bloody Tongue lives inside the
mountain and is called M'Weru, which you recognise as the name of the
African woman Roger Carlyle was obsessed with, and who he had met
around the time his strange Egyptian dreams began.  He told you that
the white people call the mountain Mount Satima, and that the god
could be sealed within it once more with an Eye of Light and Darkness.
He also said that, if you come back the next day, he can find out set
the fire vampires on you.  Before you left he gave you a ritual fly
whisk, which he said could detect evil, and a strange four-armed
lizard with its mouth on the vertical axis rather than horizontal in a
cage.  he said the lizard's name is *Who Is Not What She Seems* and
that he found her on his travels, he told you to feed her daily with
flies, and to only let out when you reached the mountain and are in
need of a friend.

The next day you returned to the village, and Bundari told you that
the fire vampires were the work of Taan Kaur, a tea seller in the
Asian Quarter.  You returned to Nairobi and spent the remainder of the
day watching Taan Kaur's shop.  It's large and busy, but at night when
the street had quieted down, you saw a group of men wearing red
head-dresses enter the shop through a side door.  They left a little
while later.

It's now the morning of the 9th of July, what do you do?

### 9th of July

You decided to go talk to Dr. Horrace Starret, who runs the free
hospital and mission school in the Swahili Town, who Jackson Elias had
also been to see.  You found him in his office and, after
introduction, Musgrave asked about Jackson Elias and cult matters.
Dr. Starret said he didn't know anything about cults, but Jackson
Elias had been to see him, asking about the Carlyle Massacre, as
Dr. Starret had examined the bodies.  He said that the bodies were
remarkably well-preserved, despite being torn into shreds and lying in
the open for months, they hadn't decayed at all.  He said that this
was clearly the mark of supernatural evil, that the Carlyle Expedition
had somehow brought the attention of the devil upon them, and that
they had been punished for it.

That evening, Jason decided to pay Taan Kaur a visit at her shop.  He
waited until the early hours of the morning, and picked the padlock on
the alley door.  He peered in and saw a corridor, linking the front of
the shop to what looked like a store room.  In the middle of the
corridor was a curtain-covered doorway.

Jason looked beneath the curtain, and saw what looked like a bed, but
it was hard to make out anything more in the darkness.  He drew the
curtain aside, but it clattered on the rail, and awoke Taan Kaur.
"Who's there?" she said, getting out of bed.  Jason didn't take any
chances, he blew her away with his shotgun, and fled into the night.

You decided to leave town the next day, as it's very suspicious if
some new people arrive in town, register their shotguns, and then a
couple of nights later someone is murdered with a shotgun.  Leaving
would be even more suspicious, but at least you would be in the jungle
and not easily captured.

### 10th of July

Due to experience with expeditions, Musgrave took charge of the
organisation.  He first went to the library to consult, and copy, maps
of the region.  He plotted a route to the Mountain of the Black Wind
which he estimated would take about 9 days if you took all the
supplies you would need to get there and back again.  He then went to
the Dalston & Son Trading Post to purchase supplies and horses, to be
delivered to the northern border of town early that afternoon.

Off into the jungle you went.

Carson was on fly duty today.  He almost took *Who Is Not What She
Seems* out of her cage, but the rest of you recalled Bundari's warning
to not let her out before you get to the mountain, and stopped him.
Instead, Carson ran around holding the cage up, so she could catch
some flies with her long tongue.

As the sun was starting to get low in the sky and you were beginning
to think about making camp, you spied what looked like an observation
post: a hut with a platform around it held off the ground on tall
stilts.  Looking beyond it, you saw a collection of buildings
surrounded by a wooden wall.  You decided to go check it out.

As you approached the buildings, you could see that it looked like a
hunting lodge of some sort, with a few lights on in the main building,
and numerous outbuildings, including a stable.  There was space for
vehicles, but none parked there at the moment.

You knocked on the door and, a few minutes later, a man opened it, and
looked surprised to see you.  He didn't speak, but gestured for you to
remain there, and disappeared again.  A few minutes later he returned
with a boisterous, red-faced, man smelling of stale whisky, who
introduced himself as Colonel Endicott, and welcomed you to his game
lodge.  You talked about your journey and he offered you rooms, saying
that the lodge had no customers at the moment.  He said that his
assistant, Silent Joe, a mute, would show you to your rooms.

Joe lead you through the large lodge, to quite large and
well-furnished rooms.  You could tell that this lodge is clearly a
business, it's not a personal country home of the colonel.  And yet
there were no other people.

Musgrave decided to go talk to the colonel, and found him in a large
armchair in the lounge.  Jason decided to go check out the viewing
platform.

Over the course of the next couple of hours, and a lot of alcohol,
Musgrave got the colonel's story out of him.  This lodge was a
successful business once upon a time, but all changed when "that
Mr. Carlyle, or whatever he was called" and his friends stayed for a
few nights.  Since then, the lodge has been cursed with bad luck.
Fatally bad luck.  The next few guests who stayed at the viewing
platform were all found mauled in the jungle, miles from the platform,
the following morning.  As if they wandered off in the night and were
attacked by a wild animal.  The story got into the papers and, because
there had been four such instances, people began to avoid the lodge.
And now it's deserted.

Jason found the viewing platform had some small beds, a few rifles,
some binoculars, and a crate of whisky.  He sampled some of that
before returning to the lodge.

Later, you all gathered in one of the bedrooms, and Musgrave drunkenly
related the colonel's story.  As he did, it turned to full night, and
a wind rose.  Clarissa was sat smoking next to an open window and
noticed something very odd: the trees in the distance weren't moving
in the wind.  The rest of you saw the same thing when she pointed it
out.  You shut the window, and decided to sleep in shifts.  The wind
stopped at dawn.

### 11th of July

Musgrave decided to go get more information from the colonel, and
found him asleep in the armchair where he had left him.  When he woke
up, the colonel seemed to remember something of what he had said the
night before, as he was reluctant to talk about the wind, but Musgrave
didn't need to pressure him too much.  He said that the wind had
started when the Carlyle Expedition stayed, and came every night when
there wasn't a victim.  Neither he nor Silent Joe had ever been out
into it.

You decided to go investigate the viewing platform that night.  The
colonel tried to dissuade you, but didn't physically restrain you.

You went outside, and noticed that the ground inside the compound was
very dusty.  It had been dusty the previous day too, and you would
have expected the wind to blow it away.

You suspected something was luring people off the platform into the
jungle at night.  Janneke agreed to be tied to a support pillar on the
platform while the rest of you concealed yourselves in the surrounding
bushes, so that no matter what she saw or heard, she wouldn't be able
to get down from the platform before you could come to help.

Night fell.

The ladder creaked, as if someone were stealthily climbing up it.
Janneke looked down, and saw four humanoid shapes, made of whirling
dust and rocks.  She shot the ladder, destroying it, which alerted the
rest of you to the danger.  Upon seeing the shapes, Musgrave was
temporarily paralysed by fear.  They immediately began attacking the
stilts holding the platform up, which began to judder.

You opened fire.  Janneke missed one, and then dropped the crate of
whisky on it.  Despite the shape being made of particles of dust, it
was pinned beneath the crate and struggled to escape, suggesting they
have some physical form.  They seem to be able to withstand a lot of
damage, with Clarissa's handgun not bothering them at all.  Jason and
Carson formed a team, with Carson reloading Jason's shotguns for him,
so Jason could fire both barrels repeatedly.  That had an effect.
Jason hit one with both shots, it dispersed and didn't reform.
Another noticed this and began running towards you, which Jason dealt
with in the same way.  The one pinned beneath the crate escaped, just
as Janneke shot the rope tying her to the platform and jumped into a
tree.  But she failed to grab a branch, and fell to the ground.  The
creature hit her in the chest, knocking the wind from her, and she
slipped into unconsciousness on the ground.  Jason destroyed a third
creature, which had also began charging him.

With only one left, leaning over Janneke, the rest of you ran in all
guns blazing, and took it out before it could land another blow.
Carson administered first aid, and carried her back to the lodge where
he could properly treat the wound.  Being hit with small chunks of
rock and dust had torn up her chest, and he had to stitch the wound
back together.

You noticed there was no wind.


Kenya session 4, 2020-02-01
---------------------------

You're in a hunting lodge, north of Nairobi, on your way to the
Mountain of the Black Wind.  The lodge belongs to a Col. Henry
Endicott and, other than him and his servant Silent Joe, it's totally
unoccupied.

Musgrave got the colonel drunk, and learned that the lodge has been
suffering a spell of "bad luck" since the Carlyle Expedition stayed.
A few visitors have been found dead in the jungle, having seemingly
wandered off in the night and been mauled by animals, and the lodge
has acquired a bad reputation.

You decided to check out the viewing platform, where all the victims
had been staying, the next night.  The colonel tried to dissuade you,
but you went anyway.  You thought it might be sirens or something,
luring people into the jungle, so Janneke, alone, was tied up on the
platform while the rest of you waited in the bushes.

It wasn't sirens.  It was shadowy people made out of dust and rocks
whirling in the wind.  They tried to creep up to the platform to
Janneke but, when she broke the ladder, started attacking the stilts
instead to bring it down.  You all joined the fight.  They withstood a
lot of damage, and Janneke got very hurt, but you destroyed them in
the end.  You returned to the lodge to nurse your wounds.

It's now the morning of the 12th of July, you've been up all night,
and Janneke is hurt.  What do you do?


### 12th of July

You decided to leave the hunting lodge behind, as you needed to get to
the mountain.  You suspected that the problem hadn't been solved with
guns, but decided you could check in on your way back.

A couple of days passed.

### 14th of July

You arrived at a path heading north-east, and decided to follow it.
It took you to a village.  The villagers had interacted with white
people before; they eyed your guns, but only one of them, an old man,
spoke any English.

He said he was called Ndovu and, after you madee your purpose clear to
him, he warned you away from the mountain.  He said that it is an evil
place, and that many people have been gathering there.  You told him
you had been sent by Bundari, which made him conclude that your
purpose can't be an evil one, but he still doesn't like it.

You set out north again.

### 17th of July

You came across a clearing, where the ground was blackened and the air
smelled of death.  Animal tracks skirted the area.  You surmised that
this was probably the site of the Carlyle Massacre, and decided to
keep to the trees and not cross it openly.

### 18th of July

You've been seeing signs of other travellers: remains of campfires,
leftover bones and other rubbish.  You're now well into the foothills
and the trees are thinning.

### 20th of July

At last, the mountain is before you.  The area is barren and rocky
now, but the mountain itself is covered in dense forest.  Clustered
around the base of the mountain is an enormous campsite.  Looking at
it through binoculars, you see mostly natives, but also white people,
Indians, and Asians.

You went around the foothills until you were out of site of the camp,
and crossed stealthily to the mountain.

On the mountain, you found a cave entrance, and crept inside.  The
cave started to widen, and you heard voices.  Jason edged forward and
peered into the cavern: a woman who could only be M'Weru, standing
talking to ten men, in front of a horrifyign statue.  The statue
depicted a man-like figure but, where the head should be, there was
only a great tentacle.  Before the statue was a pile of bones and
decaying corpses.

You watched and waited for another half hour or so, until they moved
out of sight behind the statue and evidently left to another room.
You then entered the cavern to have a look around.  You heard a
whimper from behind you, and shon your torches to reveal maybe two
hundred people, thin and sickly, locked in a large cage.  Jason tried
to pick the lock, but couldn't manage it, so you decided to search the
room for the key.

Jason found the key in an alcove next to the statue, along with a
marine chronometer of the sort you've seen before (set to GMT, like
the others).  He didn't see a passageway M'Weru could have gone
through though.  Examining the wall more closely, Jason found a lever
which opened a hidden door.

The door led to a long, thin, tunnel.  Sloping upwards and curving in
a great spiral.  At times the ground had been torn as if by an
earthquake, and you had to scramble down and up the sides of fissures.
You eventually found yourselves on the doorway of a huge chamber.

The walls were made of black stone, and the immense ceiling was held
up by six great pillars.  The room was lit by the glow of a
sickly-looking brown fungus.  In the middle, next to what could only
be described as a sacrificial altar, stood M'Weru and the men.  You
could also see some steps off to the side, but couldn't see up them
without creeping further into the room.

As the room was so huge, you felt you could sneak to the steps without
being noticed, and you did.

At the top of the steps stood a large throne, and before the throne
crouched a hideous mound of flesh, with a sick approximation of a
human face near its apex, and two tentacles on its sides which could
perhaps be arms.  At the hideous site, you all lost control.  Jason
threw grenade after grenade.  Even in such a large room, being noticed
by M'Weru was unavoidable.  You ran.  Ran back through the doorway,
down the tunnel, and into the lower chamber.  Musgrave ran over to the
cage and flung it open, though only a few dozen or so were strong
enough to run for freedom.  In the resulting confusion, you managed to
escape, and hide out on the mountain until the pursuit gave up around
sunset.

Clarissa decided to cast a spell to summon "a spirit of the air".

Fifty minutes later, the air became somehow denser, and you all felt a
presence.  Clarissa felt something unseen brush against her.  She
shuddered, and commanded the creature to attack M'Weru.  A sudden gust
of wind announced its departure.

A few moments later, from the direction of the cave, you heard a man's
voice yell.  A little after that, a loud thud as if something large
had been flung hard against a surface.  Then nothing.

You realised the cultists were gathering at the foot of the mountain,
and managed to join the crowd.  M'Weru, limping, and one of the men,
bleeding, appeared on a ledge, to the cheers of the assembled throng.
There were thousands of people there.

M'Weru raised her arms, and shouted something in swahili.  She then
started to chant "nyar sthan! nyar gashanna!" which the rest of the
crowd picked up.  Drums began to beat the rhythm of the chant.  The
cultists started to work themselves up into a frenzy, some even
tearing off their clothes.  Then, the man started shoving captived off
the ledge into the crowd, who tore them apart.

At that, Carson had had enough.  He remembered Bundari's words, to let
out Who when you were at the mountain and in need of a friend, so he
took the little lizard from its cage and flung it towards M'Weru.  As
he held the lizard, he felt it begin to change, and it rapidly grew
into a much larger creater, bigger than a man, with large claws.  Who
began clawing her way through the crowd towards M'Weru, who flung her
arm forward and began to chant.  Jason raised his gun, and shot her.
Who made it to the front of the crowd and began climbing to the ledge,
with Carson chasing behind.  When Carson made it to the top, he saw
Who ripping apart the body of the man.

The cultists were in too much of a frenzy to be dismayed, or even
notice, the death of M'Weru.

Lightning struck the mountain top, and a black cloud, which held its
shape rather than dispersing, raced down the side towards the group.
You decided to run.

But not fast enough.  The cloud reached the ground, and formed a giant
shape, as tall as the mountain, of a man with a tentacle where his
head should be.  The giant figure gestured towards the mountain, and
it reshaped itself into a vast staircase.  Cultists began racing up
the stairs, shoving each other off the sides and to their death on the
rocks below in their eagerness.  The Bloody Tongue scooped up
occasional handfuls of cultists, either eating them or dashing them
onto the rocks.

Blisfully, your sanity left you.  All of you.  Some of you escaped to
the jungle, emerging broken men with short live.  Some of you were
killed in the crowd.  Clarissa joined the cultists ascending the
mountain, and found herself bowing down and worshiping before the
Spawn of Nyarlathotep, which had emerged from the corpse of what had
once been Hypatia Masters.

<aside class="highlight">
The end.
</aside>
