---
title: Game Systems
taxon: general-games
tags: apocalypse world, call of cthulhu
published: 2020-04-13
modified: 2020-06-05 20:45:00
---

Here are my thoughts on game systems, and what I've learned about my
taste in RPGs.


Apocalypse World (2nd ed)
-------------------------

Apocalypse World, and other Powered by the Apocalypse games, describe
themselves as fiction-first games.

The way they mechanically achieve this is having "moves" which trigger
in response to your character doing something.  The book says that you
shouldn't look at the list of moves and decide what your character
does, rather you should do what feels most natural for your character
and then, if it meets the conditions of a move, dice get rolled.  If
it doesn't meet the conditions of a move, you resolve it narratively.

I have three main problems with how the game works out in practice:

1. The moves are super-broad, and I've had multiple situations in my
   game where all the players have different ideas about which moves
   are being triggered, which makes us stop the narrative and discuss
   it.  That's definitely not how the book describes them working.  So
   in practice the system rewards you doing exact what it says you
   shouldn't do (look at the list of moves to decide what your
   character does next) because if you don't, everyone can agree that
   *a* move has been triggered, but not agree *which* has been.

2. When a move is triggered, it usually calls for rolling dice.  All
   dice rolls in the game are `2d6 + stat`, with no difficulty
   modifiers.  A 10+ is a full success, a 7+ is a partial success.  So
   characters succeed at almost everything they try, regardless of the
   situation.  Furthermore, there are only 5 stats, so characters feel
   really... I'm not sure how to describe it... lacking in depth?
   Successes don't feel like they've been *earned* by the actions of
   the player, they just feel *expected*.

3. It's not just the players that have moves, the GM has moves too.
   They're not suggestions, the book says that Apocalypse World calls
   for a particular style of GMing, and these moves are it.  Codifying
   good GM behaviour sounds good in principle but, in practice, there
   have been times where I've wanted to resolve something
   non-narratively (eg, "there are three men approaching the junkyard,
   roll+sharp to see if you find the doo-dah you're searching for: 10+
   you find it and get away before they arrive; 7+ you find it and are
   loading it into the car when they arrive; 6- they arrive as you're
   knee deep in the scrap heap, digging it out") but if there's no
   move for that situation, I can't do that.  I have to just pick an
   outcome myself, which feels way more arbitrary than a skill check.

The sessions are fun, but feel like they're fun *despite* the system,
not *because* of it.

Ultimately I ended up ending the campaign I was running early.  I had
started running a Call of Cthulhu game for a different group, and
realised how much less fun I was finding Apocalypse World.  On
reflection, the main difference between the two campaigns was the
story: I didn't feel like my Apocalypse World game was building up
towards a conclusion.  The Apocalypse World book suggests the system
works best for shortish (12 sessions or so) campaigns, naturally
building to a head, and ending after some big moment.  But after 7
sessions, I didn't feel like that was happening at all.  There were
long-running plot arcs which could be tied up, but I saw no reason for
one of them to be *the end* of the campaign.  And not having any idea
how a campaign will end 5 sessions before it's supposed to is not a
good feeling.

It also doesn't help that, in certain online communities, whenever
someone says they don't particularly like PbtA games, people come out
of the woodwork to explain how the OP must be playing it "wrong",
because if they were playing it "right" they *would* like it.  Some of
the fans can be almost cult-like in their devotion.


Call of Cthulhu (7th ed)
------------------------

Call of Cthulhu is an investigative horror game.  It's also the first
system I ran which, in hindsight, may have been a mistake because I
couldn't do a lot of it justice.

The system reinforces the horror theme by having sanity mechanics,
where your character goes slowly insane as they're exposed to the
awfulness.  This mechanic may not be for everyone, as it deprives the
player of agency on occasion.

My main problems with the system are:

1. There's a very wide range of skills.  On the one hand, this is
   good, because it means it's hard for one character to be good in
   every situation.  It encourages working together to solve problems.
   On the other hand, it means you can easily spend points in
   character creation on a skill which just never comes up, which is
   frustrating.  Furthermore, it can be difficult to justify why such
   diverse characters know each other.

2. The mechanics for chases are really clunky.  I can see why they
   wanted to introduce them---in a horror game, *running away* is
   often a sensible thing to do---but I don't think it was done
   particularly well.  I think in my campaign we gave up on the chase
   rules at some point.  If I were aware of D&D 4e's "skill challenge"
   mechanic (the party has to accumulate `x` successes before `y`
   failures, using any skills as long as you can justify them), I'd
   have used that for chases instead.

3. A lot of mechanics require weeks or months of in-game time: for
   example, recovering from insanity in a sanitorium, being healed
   from the brink of death, or studying a mythos tome and learning the
   spells within.  This works if you're running fairly disconnected
   scenarios where months of in-game downtime can be explained away
   with something like "and you return to your normal life, until you
   get a creepy letter from your uncle 3 years later..." but it
   doesn't work so well in a campaign where there's always the next
   lead to follow.  I ended up house-ruling that you can just do those
   things on a week-long ocean voyage.

There was also a problem that, being an inexperienced GM, I was pretty
bad at ensuring players got clues without railroading them, and pretty
bad at knowing (a) when a skill check was appropriate (as opposed to
an automatic success or failure) and (b) how to handle failure (beyond
just saying "oh, it didn't work...").  But those are problems with me,
not with the system.

I particularly liked the skill check mechanics: a d100 roll-under
system, with three task difficulties, and an advantage/disadvantage
system.  It means you have a lot to think about when deciding what
should be rolled, but it's easy to come up with some rules-of-thumb.
[I graphed all the types of roll in a memo][coc1].

[coc1]: call-of-cthulhu-dice-rolls.html


City of Mist
------------

A PbtA game, but with elements of Fate too.  It's a noir detective
game, set entirely within "the city", where all the legends are true.
Most people are fully human but some, like the player characters, have
felt a myth awaken inside them, granting them power... at the price of
needing to keep up a constant balancing act with their humanity at
stake.

Characters and situations have "tags" (like Fate aspects) and the
basic die roll is `2d6+power`, where power is derived from the tags
which help or hinder you.  There are mechanics to introduce or change
tags, and tags can be temporarily used up to give increased bonuses.
This feels much more satisfying to me than the `2d6+stat` resolution
mechanic in Apocalypse World, as it means difficulty is
context-dependent.  We didn't seem to have many discussions about
which move applied to a situation, it was usually pretty obvious.

In general, City of Mist feels like a PbtA game that does PbtA better
than Apocalypse World does.

I've only played this system, not run it, so I don't have any opinions
about that side of it.


Fate Accelerated
----------------

A generic system, which takes a fairly abstract approach.  The game
mechanics are based around creating, manipulating, and using
"aspects": aspects of PCs, aspects of NPCs, aspects of the location,
the setting, the game...

You deal with these aspects using a metacurrency called fate points.
For example, the GM can encourage you to do something troublesome,
like "your character has the 'no respect for authority' aspect, so
I'll give you a fate point if you insult the king", if you do that,
you get the fate point, and can later spend that fate point to gain a
bonus in a roll, introduce a new aspect, and so on.  The fate point
economy is designed to lead to good things and bad things naturally
happening in the narrative.  Sure, you insulted the king and got
locked up, but you then did an incredible job escaping from jail, and
in one of the other cells you found someone we're looking for!

It's a bit tricky getting our heads around this style of play, but
it's working fairly well.  It's definitely not a system I'd recommend
to someone new to RPGs, though.

I've only played this system, not run it, so I don't have any opinions
about that side of it.


Golden Sky Stories
------------------

Golden Sky Stories is a pretty unique system in that it's got a really
small scope.  It also doesn't use dice or randomisation at all.

In Golden Sky Stories you play helpful animal spirits, helping people
in a small town with their problems.  These problems can be as small
as "my friends moved away and I'm lonely".  There are skill checks,
but you resolve those by spending points of "feelings" to boost your
attribute high enough to pass, it's totally deterministic.

The game is largely about roleplaying.  The mechanics are pretty
simple, and the system relies on a few different metacurrencies.  The
main way to gain more metacurrency is to:

1. Do cute things.  Any player can award any character with a point of
   "dreams" at any time.  The player doesn't pay a dream to do that,
   the new dream springs into existence.  The balancing factor is that
   you can only award one dream per thing.

2. Form bonds with more characters (or use dreams to strengthen
   existing bonds), as bonds give you "wonder" and "feelings" (the
   other two metacurrencies) at the start of each scene.

It's a nice system for one-shots, though it does absolutely rely on
everyone getting into it and roleplaying.  If you approach it from the
angle of trying to solve the problem efficiently, you'll get through a
scenario in no time at all, and probably won't have any fun.

I don't think it really works for a campaign.  I was a player in one
campaign and we stopped after three or four sessions.  The game
doesn't have much depth or character progression to it, and I feel
those are essential to give a game longevity.


Pokerole
--------

This is someone's unofficial Pokemon RPG.

Honestly, I don't really have anything positive to say about it.  I
was in a campaign, but we decided to switch to Fate Accelerated after
a while because almost every time the mechanics came up, they caused
more problems than they solved, and we realised that some of our best
sessions hadn't involved the mechanics at all.

There wasn't a core mechanic.  Every aspect of the game had a totally
different system.  Shortly after we switched to Fate, a new version
came out with some new mechanics for competitions: which was literally
just a boardgame, and one which looked a lot like Monopoly.  Glad we
got out of that.

I've only played this system, not run it, so I don't have any opinions
about that side of it.  Though the GM has often complained that the
difficulty of making pokemon means he can't really do random
encounters.


Systems I've used in one-shots
------------------------------

Because of my limited experience, it's hard to give any particularly
well-thought-out opinions for these.

### Ars Magica (5th ed)

My group started a campaign, but most of the players didn't really
like the system and we called it quits after one scenario.  I do like
feel of the system, so I want to give it another chance, but I'll need
to find another group first.

### Blades in the Dark

I know this is really popular (both it and its derivatives), but I
wasn't too impressed when I did play it.  But that could be because
the GM was trying to make all the game mechanics show up in one
four-hour session so we'd get to see everything.

### Dungeon World

I think this one-shot was the first RPG I actually played.  I didn't
get much out of it because I was so unsure of what to do, so I didn't
do much.  I'd need to try it again to actually form an opinion on it
but, given how I feel about Apocalypse World, I'm not sure I'd like
it.

### Monster of the Week

Another one I played when I was still pretty new and passive.  But
it's a PbtA game, so I'm not too sure...


Systems I want to try
---------------------

I collect free RPG PDFs whenever I see them, so I've got a lot.  Here
are the few which I particularly want to try.

### Dread

Horror game which uses a jenga tower to build tension.  That's pretty
much all I know about it, but it seems like such a neat mechanic that
I want to give it a go.

### Dungeons and Dragons

The prototypical RPG.  A lot of people don't like it, but it feels
like I'd be missing out to not try it at least once.

### GUMSHOE

A family of systems, rather than a system as such, with lots of
setting-specific variants.  It's an investigation game but with less
dice rolling than Call of Cthulhu.  A lot of people seem to like the
GUMSHOE game Trail of Cthulhu.

### Genesys

A generic system, like Fate, but much crunchier.  The main unique
thing about the system is that it uses custom dice to give a wide
range of possible outcomes for any action.  There's success/fail, but
also good/neutral/bad side-effects (both minor and major), which seems
like a great way to make sure every roll pushes the story forwards.

### Godbound

An OSR-style game about being a newly-awakened demigod doing whatever
they want.  I like the sound of this because I've not played an
OSR-style game before, so that would be a good learning experience,
and also because it operates on a different scale to most games:
dungeon crawling isn't a challenging task for demigods, so the
challenges are more things like "I want to found a cult", "I want to
turn this corrupt monarchy into a theocracy", or "I want to build a
new heaven for the souls of my worshippers".

### Mythras

A Basic Role Playing-derived kinda-generic system usually applied to
fantasy settings.  It's got a bunch of features I like: hit locations,
lethal combat, and a gentle power curve which means things which are
threatening in the early-game can easily still be threatening in the
late-game.


Thoughts on mechanics
---------------------

Before getting into specific mechanics, it's worthwhile looking at
how, broadly, I think a game system should work.  I'll characterise
this in terms of **[GNS][]** and **[stance][]**.

I generally feel that the rules of a game should provide the "physics"
of the game world, so I prefer simulationist systems over narritivist
ones.  If the games rules commonly boil down to "you decide based on
whatever is best for your story", events in the game just feel
arbitrary to me.  I like to feel that there is some in-setting reason
for the way things happen.

As a consequence of preferring simulationist systems, I think
*ideally* players will spend most of their time in actor
stance[^acting], using only in-character knowledge and motivations to
make their decisions.  In practice that's hard, so I'm also fine with
players spending most of their time in author stance.

[^acting]: *Note:* that doesn't mean *acting*, they don't have to "do
  the voice".

I generally feel that director stance ruins immersion, and I don't
like that.  A player might briefly adopt director stance on occasion,
for example suggesting a detail of the scene which the GM hasn't
described, but that should definitely be the exception rather than the
rule.

I strongly think that story should arise out of the actions of the
characters, not because the players are actively reshaping the
narrative through rules which encourage them to take director stance.

Now here are some thoughts on particular areas of systems:

- **Core Mechanic:** I think skill checks are a good core mechanic.  I
  like the possibility of characters having substantially different
  competencies, so I like systems with a range of attributes/skills
  broad enough so that no character can be good at *everything*.  I
  also like the ability to account for situational factors increasing
  or decreasing the difficulty of a task.  It feels much more real.

- **Failure:** I *don't* like dead-end failure being common, it can be
  ok sometimes, but normally failing a check should nevertheless
  advance the game somehow.

- **Structured Gameplay:** Normally gameplay should be unstructured,
  with the exact order of events fuzzy.  But sometimes order does
  become important, like in combat.  I like the ability to drop into a
  structured mode where events *can* be ordered (eg, turns and
  rounds).  I suspect I would like popcorn initiative as a way to
  handle this, but I'd need to try it out.

  A related mechanic is that of positioning.  I've not played a
  grid-based tactical RPG, but I suspect I would find that fairly
  unwieldy.  Genesys uses a few different ranges ("engaged", "short
  range", "medium range", "long range", "extreme range"), with rules
  for moving up and down levels, and that seems like a nice solution
  to the problem.

- **Improvisation:** I like the ability for the GM to easily improvise
  in situations there isn't a rule for.  For example, asking for a
  check to decide how the game advances, even when there isn't a rule
  saying "now you ask for a check", should be an acceptable thing to
  do.

- **Metacurrency:** I'm not sure how I feel about metacurrency.  I
  suspect it works in more narrative-style games, and doesn't work in
  more simulation-style games.

[GNS]: http://indie-rpgs.com/articles/3/
[stance]: http://indie-rpgs.com/articles/4/
