---
title: Game Mastering
taxon: games
published: 2020-05-26
---

<aside class="highlight">This is out of date and in need of review.</aside>

I am a fairly inexperienced GM.  I've been running games since
September 2018, in three systems, and for two of those I relied
heavily on pre-written modules.

I can get pretty lost when I have to improvise.  I can get stuck with
analysis paralysis if it's clear that *a* rule applies, but it's not
clear *which* or *how*, and so I need to make a ruling.  I've been
guilty of the classic mistakes, like just shutting down player actions
I wasn't prepared to handle, and heavily railroading people through my
plot.

But I try to improve.  I read a lot of GMing resources, I reflect on
my sessions, and I ask for advice.

This memo is a collection of my advice, to you.


Action adjudication
-------------------

### Only roll when the outcome is in doubt

PCs are, generally, competent.  So when a PC needs to do something,
there are four cases:

1. If the action is easy, the PC just does it.  Don't roll for easy
   things.

2. If the action is challenging, but there are no external factors
   which put the outcome in doubt (like a hard time limit, or a threat
   of discovery), the PC just does it.  You might want to roll to find
   out how well they do it (maybe it takes hours longer than hoped),
   but fundamentally they do it.

3. If the action is challenging, and there *are* external factors
   which put the outcome in doubt, roll for it.

4. If the action is impossible, the PC just doesn't do it.  Don't roll
   for impossible things.

### Failure doesn't just mean "you fail"

We've got a case (3): the thing is challenging, and the outcome is in
doubt.  The player rolls... and they miss their target.

If possible, don't just stop the action.  Sometimes that is
appropriate, but often it can be more interesting for the PC to
succeed, but in such an awful way that they wish they hadn't.  Or
maybe they fail, but still learn how they could succeed in the future.

For example, let's say the PC is picking the lock on a safe and they
miss their roll.  Which one of these three outcomes do you *not* want
to narrate:

1. "You pick the lock, but as you reach for the money inside your hand
  trips a laser sensor, setting off the alarm!  You hear the footsteps
  of the guards outside, they'll be here in seconds."

2. "You carefully examine the lock, and quietly swear under your
  breath: you'll need some explosives or special-purpose picks before
  you can crack this safe open."

3. "You fail to open the safe."

Here, (1) has the player succeed, but with a significant complication;
(2) has the player fail, but gives them a path forwards; and (3) does
neither.

### In combat, the PCs never just miss

In a fight, an experienced swordsman doesn't just flail around with
their sword and hope to do some damage.  So if a player fails a combat
roll, something happens in the fiction that prevents their attack from
succeeding.

Maybe the environment is difficult: the ceiling is too low, the
corridor too narrow, there's an exposed beam in the way.  Maybe the
enemy parries, or they dive aside.  Anything other than the PC just
misjudging their swing due to incompetence.

Decide on why the PC missed, and narrate it.

The same goes for when NPC attacks miss the PCs: it's because the PCs
swiftly evade, or parry, or use their weapon to prevent the NPC from
coming close enough.

### Don't roll for fluff

Sometimes a player will want to do something cool just because it's
cool, and not to gain a mechanical advantage.  I know this may be a
shocking idea.  Maybe a player wants to swing off a chandelier during
a bar fight, or leap across a table.

If that's just fluff, for god's sake don't make them roll for it!  If
players have to roll for fluff, then they can fail (which will have
consequences), so you're encouraging them to *not* introduce
excitement.

Consider this exchange:

- **Player:** I run a few feet up the wall and push off it, my sword
  slashing down at the neck of the orc.
- **GM:** roll for Acrobatics.
- **Player:** I fail.
- **GM:** you slip off the wall, and fall at the orc's feet.

The wall jump didn't give any advantage to the attack (if it did, it's
sensible to roll for it!), so here the GM punished the player for
trying to make "I swing my sword at the orc" a bit more fun.


Attitude
--------

### You are not the enemy of the players

The actions of the GM and the actions of the players often appear
opposed.

But you are not the enemy of the players or the characters.  It's not
the case that one side "wins" and the other side "loses".  Describe
the world and portray its inhabitants genuinely, that is all.

### Expect the unexpected

The players will do things you don't expect, and that can be very
scary!

It's comforting to feel prepared.  You can spend a long time thinking
about everything the players could do, writing notes for every
possible situation, preparing dialogue for all the NPCs... and then
the players do something unexpected, something you didn't prep for.

There are three ways to handle this, two of which are bad:

1. Just shut it down.  Tell the players they can't do that, or
   introduce an impassable obstacle.
2. Let them do it, but manoeuver the PCs back into your prepared
   events.
3. Accept that your prep is not as useful as you hoped, and improvise.

Telling the players "no" or tricking them into getting back into your
prepared storyline are not good things to do.  Those techniques rob
the players of agency, making them feel that their actions don't
matter.

You can never anticipate everything the players will want to do, so
your prep will always be incomplete.  And that's just something you'll
have to accept, and become comfortable with.


Information and clues
---------------------

### Essential clues are guaranteed

If a clue is required to keep the session moving, do your best to make
sure the players get it!

Make the clue available in a few different ways, and be prepared to
improvise new ways if the players depart from what you expected.
Ideally don't make it require a roll; and if you do, have the player
get the clue even if they fail, but maybe at a cost.

If the players *completely* disregard all the hints you're giving
towards this clue, and do nothing even remotely appropriate to get
it... then you might have to make the clue optional and figure out how
the session is going to proceed.

### The characters live in the world, even if the players don't

NPCs know things about the world---for example, a royal order of
knights tasked with protecting the realm might know quite a bit about
what various monsters are weak to---so PCs should too.

If there's a piece of information that an NPC with the PC's experience
would be reasonably expected to know, then just tell the player it.
You don't need to write a book of everything each PC knows before the
campaign starts, just bring things up in context.

And don't require rolls for common knowledge!  For example,

- If the PC is a citizen of a certain country, they will *almost
  certainly* know the basics of its government, geography, famous
  people, culture, and so on, without needing to make knowledge rolls.
- If a PC is from an area with a monster problem, they'll know some
  tricks for dealing with some types of monster, such as how to
  recognise tracks.  Though some of what they know may well be
  incorrect folklore, that's fun too.

NPCs
----

### NPCs have hopes and dreams too!

A common mistake is to treat NPCs as only existing for the sake of the
PCs.  But the PCs shouldn't be the driving force behind *everything*
that happens in the world, that makes the world just feel flat and
uninteresting.  NPCs get up to stuff too.

Give NPCs their own motivations and concerns which *don't* involve the
PCs.  If the PCs never showed up, what would Bob the blacksmith be
doing with his life?  Treat NPCs like real people, and the world will
feel more alive.

Furthermore, most people won't fight to the death.  NPCs are the same!
They will retreat or surrender rather than die, and this applies to
intelligent monsters too.


Rules
-----

### You don't need to know all the rules

Most RPG systems have a lot of rules.  Even "rules-lite" systems can
be difficult to wrap your head around when you're new to them.  This
is a common source of panic for inexperienced GMs.

But don't worry!  If a situation comes up in play and you don't
remember the rule, you have two options:

1. Pause play and check the rules.
2. Make something up which seems sensible.

They both have their pros and cons.  (1) means you get a definitive
answer, but it's not great if you'll take more than a couple of
minutes.  Watching someone flip through a book isn't that enthralling.
(2) is quicker, but you could get it wrong.  It's ok to make mistakes,
just check your rulings after the session, and adjust in sessions
going forward.

### Rules are not the Word of God

Sometimes you will disagree with a rule: you might think that it's
clunky, not fun, or just plain wrong.

You can change it if you want to.

But before you do, make sure you understand the rule first.  Game
designers are generally good at what they do, and games get playtested
before publishing.  If you're confident you understand the rule, and
you still don't like it, go ahead and change it.  But make sure you
clearly communicate that to your players, and that you adjudicate your
new rule consistently.

### Make up rules when there are gaps

RPG systems have rules for situations the game designers thought
likely to come up, but each individual game is a unique thing.  Your
campaign might go in unexpected, and unusual, directions.

For example, your players might end up becoming pirates, but there are
no rules in the book for ship-to-ship combat.  By all means, make
something up to fill the gap.


Sessions
--------

### Have breaks, arrange them beforehand

RPG sessions are usually multiple hours long.  Three or four hours is
common.

The longer the session, the more likely your players will need a
break.  Someone will need to go to the toilet, or to stretch their
legs, or to get a new drink.

You could play continuously until someone interrupts play because they
*need* to stop for a bit, but that's not great.  It puts pressure on
your players, because people generally don't want to interrupt
everyone's fun.

Alternatively, you can decide when the breaks will be, and let the
players know in advance.  Maybe you have a 15-minute break in the
middle.  Or a 10-minute break every hour and a half.  This is good
because it removes the pressure from the players.  Sure, someone might
still need to stop play before the scheduled break, but usually people
will be able to hold out.

### Silences are always longer than you think

A player finishes talking, and nobody else starts.

What feels like minutes pass.  If you're playing online and can't see
your players faces, you imagine that everyone is just sitting in
silence at their computers, waiting.

Are they waiting for you?  They must be!  The silence is so long!
Nobody knows what to do!

And then another player starts talking.  In reality, 15 seconds have
passed.

When you're the GM, silences always feel like they last forever, even
when they're only brief.  Before you panic too much, glance at the
clock.

### Finish early

As you get towards your scheduled end time, start to look for a good
point to end the session.  A cliffhanger or a bit of downtime are good
for this.

You don't want to have to choose between running late or stopping in
the middle of the action.  Much better to finish early.


Resources
---------

I've found these (and more) resources useful as both a player and a
GM:

- [Fate Roleplaying Game SRD](https://fate-srd.com/)
- [Gamemastering](http://www.gamemastering.info/)
- [Play Unsafe](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/106247/Play-Unsafe)
- [Running the Game](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlUk42GiU2guNzWBzxn7hs8MaV7ELLCP_)
- [Principia Apocrypha: Principles of Old School RPGs, or, A New OSR Primer](https://lithyscaphe.blogspot.com/p/principia-apocrypha.html)
