---
title: Magic Mechanics
date: 2017-09-17
tags: worldbuilding
---

This is about the mechanics of magic in a world where all power stems
from one being.  This being does not necessarily want others to know
that this is the case, and so it creates a consistent system of magic
for others, wizards and magicians, to use.  Where this being gained
the power of magic is irrelevant, all that matters is the system which
it has built up.


True Magic
----------

Magic is the ability to modify the world in any way, without
limitation.  The wielder is omnipotent, able to alter the world at a
thought.

True magic, as opposed to indirect magic (next major section), does
not have any rituals, incantations, or spells.  Think of it as like
moving a limb: you don't direct the operation of your muscles, it's a
wholly subconscious process.  True magic is the same: the wielder does
not direct the magic, they just want the world to be as it is not, and
the change happens.

### Wielders of Magic ###

There is only one wielder of true magic at any given time.  This being
is, for lack of a better term, God.

### The Transfer of Magic ###

A wielder of magic can transfer the power to another being.  This is a
total transfer of power: it's not possible to conditionally grant
power, or to grant some power but not all power.  It's an
all-or-nothing deal.

If the current wielder of magic dies, then the magic dies with them
and the world becomes a sadder place.


Indirect Magic
-------------

Indirect magic is magic performed by the wielder of true magic
(hereafter "God"), on the behalf of someone else (hereafter a
"magician").  From the perspective of the magician, they are
performing the magic.  They draw the circles, wave their arms, say the
spells, and the world changes.  They don't know that what actually
happens is that God notices this and performs the appropriate effect
at the appropriate time.

This is a lot of work for God, but as He is an omnipotent being it's
not that bad.

Magicians believe they have magical power.  They do not know about
true magic, or that what they do is indirect magic.  They are
deceived, and would be horrified to learn the truth.

### The Age of Myths ###

A time in human history when the population was small enough for God
to monitor the entire world, and perform indirect magic as He saw fit.
Mighty sorcerers walked the earth, calling forth power from their
fingertips with a shout.  Monsters lived in the dark places, and
heroes wielding magical weapons hunted them down.

It was an age of chaos, where just about anyone who God liked the look
of could cast arbitrary magic.  But as the population grew, it became
more work for God to keep everything going.  This led to God creating
a more ritualistic system of magic, which was gradually revealed to
the magicians of the Age, and the non-ritualistic system phased out
over centuries.

### The Magic Machine ###

The Magic Machine is a device created to monitor the world, and let
God know when magic should be performed.

It is a fairly intelligent machine, but a machine nonetheless.  It is
only capable of recognising what it has been programmed to recognise.
This explains why ritualised magic incantations and drawings exist:
they are composed out of a magical language which the machine has been
created to recognise. When a magician casts a spell, they are
communicating a program in the magical language (even though they may
not know the full details of the magical language), which the Magic
Machine recognises and communicates to God.  God then performs the
appropriate effect.

The creation of the magical language and the machine has greatly
lessened the burden on God, at the cost of a much more rigid system of
magic, and the end of the Age of Myths.
