---
title: Masks of Nyarlathotep Session Notes
tags: call of cthulhu
date: 2018-11-11
audience: Narrow
---

Player characters
-----------------

* **Lady Clarissa Ashdown** (19), an antiquarian from England.
* **Wilhelmina Braun** (22), a drifter from Austria.
* **Dr. Carson Crane** (30), a doctor of medicine from Louisiana.
* **Professor Arthur Musgrave** (58), an archaeologist from London.
* **Jason Steele** (28), a private eye from Salem.


Peru session 1, 2018-09-29
--------------------------

You all responded to a newspaper advert looking for participants in an
expedition to find an unknown pyramid in Peru, organised by one
Augustus Larkin.

In Lima, Peru, you met Augustus Larkin, a sickly looking white man
with a British accent, who you noticed is possibly suffering opioid
withdrawal symptoms; Luis de Mendoza, a Hispanic-looking man, who is
Larkin's silent and imposing assistant; and Jesse Hughes, an
African-American folklorist.  "Jesse Hughes" is actually an alias he
has given Larkin, his real identity is Jackson Elias, a not-unknown
author who investigates and writes about real-world cults.

Over dinner, Larkin gave you an overview of the expedition and what he
hopes to find.  Afterwards, Jackson Elias revealed that he has doubts:
he's in Peru to investigate an ancient death cult behind the legend of
the "kharisiri", fat-sucking vampires.  Mendoza has a fearsome
reputation, and Larkin is acting strangely; Jackson Elias thinks that
they, the pyramid, and this expedition are all connected to the cult
somehow.

You, and Jackson Elias, are staying in the Hotel Maury; Larkin and
Mendoza are staying in the Hotel Espana.  The expedition leaves the
morning of the day after tomorrow to Puno, and from there into the
mountains: so you have one evening and one full day in Lima.

The following morning you went with Jackson Elias to meet with
Professor Memesio Sanchez, a respected archaeologist and historian at
the local university. Professor Sanchez has offered numerous times to
help Larkin's expedition, but been rebuffed or ignored every time.  He
thinks that Larkin plans to steal the pyramid's historical treasures
and take them abroad, which the law currently does not prevent.  He
and his assistant, the undergraduate Trinidad Rizo, have been
conducting research into the possible location of the pyramid, based
on documents in the university archives.

Rizo was taking an unusually long time to arrive at the meeting, so
you---not including Jackson Elias and Professor Sanchez---went to the
store room to investigate.  There you found signs of a struggle, and
Rizo's dead body.  Boxes had been knocked off shelves, and she was
partly buried.  You found the skin stretched tightly over her bones,
as if the fat had been removed from her body, and a large circular
wound in her chest.

---

It is now around noon.

Dr. Crane, you were examining the body.

Lady Ashdown, you had found footprints leaving the room.

What are the rest of you doing?


Peru session 2, 2018-10-27
--------------------------

Still reeling from the shock of finding Rizo's damaged body,
Prof. Musgrave ran back to the office to fetch Prof. Sanchez and
Jackson Elias.

Dr. Crane, as he finished his examination of the body and climbed to
his feet noticed two things previously missed: a sheet of handwritten
paper sticking out of Rizo's jacket pocket, and the glint of gold from
a crate next to her body.  You all read the paper while you waited for
Prof. Musgrave and the rest to return: it was Rizo's notes on "The
Final Confessions of Gaspar Figueroa", a conquistador who came to Peru
in 1541.  The notes describe how he and his companions---Hernando
Ruiz, Diego Garrido, Luis de Mendoza, and Pedro de Velasco---found an
ancient temple near Lake Titicaca full of gold, how they removed some
of the gold and, that night, all turned into ravenous monsters who
pursued Figueroa.  Figueroa eventually arrived in Lima, wasted and
weakened by his ordeal, still carrying the gold they removed.  For the
rest of his days, Figueroa was plagued by hearing the voices of his
friends, crying out in inhuman hunger; and another voice, ancient and
seductive, promising him eternal life if he returned to the temple.

Musgrave, Sanchez, and Elias all arrived back.  Prof. Sanchez, shocked
and grieving, collapsed to the floor next to Rizo's corpse; Lady
Ashdown examined the gold in the crate, and found it to be a solid
gold band covered in geometric shapes, with ragged edges as if it had
been torn from a larger design, and managed to get enough sense out of
Prof. Sanchez to learn that this gold was found with the Gaspar
Figueroa documents.  The crate itself looked like it had been torn
apart, rather than being damaged by simply falling to the floor as a
shelf was knocked.  Furthermore, she noticed that the gold, while cold
to the touch, had burned scraps of skin stuck to it, as if someone had
tried to pick it up while red hot.

You all argued about how best to distribute weapons amongst the party
as you pursued the presumed attacker by following the bloody
footprints, until Sanchez cried out "we have to call the *police*!"
You decided to split up: Jackson Elias and Prof. Sanchez would go back
to his office to call the police, Wilhelmina would stay here to watch
the body, and the rest of you would follow the footprints.

The footprints became harder and harder to track, and you lost them
back in the corridor leading to Prof. Sanchez's office.  In front of
you was the door outside, to your left were the offices.  Lady Ashdown
and Jason Steele went outside, Dr. Crane and Prof. Musgrave decided to
go check out the offices.  As they arrived at Prof. Sanchez's office,
Prof. Musgrave glimpsed a face peering in through the window, which
quickly disappeared.  The window looked out onto an area behind the
university building full of trees and shrubbery, with no paths and few
visitors.  You both, and Jackson Elias, climbed out of the window, but
couldn't see anyone.  Prof. Musgrave heard quiet footsteps not very
far away, as of someone trying to sneak away, and ran towards the
source.

Prof. Musgrave emerged into a clearing, to find Luis de Mendoza, who
turned slowly and fixed the professor with a silent gaze.  Dr. Crane
and Jackson Elias caught up as you stared each other down.
Prof. Musgrave drew a gun, and tried to question Mendoza: silence.
Jackson Elias tried in Spanish: silence.  Dr. Crane went to fetch the
others; after he left, Mendoza charged Prof. Musgrave, who shot him
twice without slowing him down.  Mendoza barreled into the professor,
tackling him to the ground, but got shot at point-blank range by
Jackson Elias, flinging him off, and he lay still.  Everyone but
Wilhelmina, who was still watching the body, showed up a few minutes
later.  Dr. Crane examined the body and said that no man could survive
that.  About half an hour later, the police showed up and took over.

You decided to go confront Larkin, to see what he knew about Mendoza
and, if nothing else, to tell him he needed a new bodyguard as you'd
killed his current one.  You arrived at the Hotel Espana and met the
aged proprietor, Petronila Cupitina, who directed you to Larkin and
Mendoza's rooms.  Both were silent.  After fiddling around with
lockpicks and considering scaling the exterior of the building, you
discovered Larkin's room was actually unlocked all along, and
cautiously entered.  The room was a tip, with things scattered
everywhere.  There you found Larkin, out of his mind on a large dose
of heroin, which Dr. Crane estimated would not be fatal, but which
would last several more hours.  Larkin vaguely recognised you, but was
unable to do anything more than suggest that you meet some other time.

You decided to snoop around and look for clues.  Wilhelmina
unsuccessfully tried to find a map to the pyramid.  Jackson Elias
noticed that Larkin had a large tattoo on his check: of a person, but
in the place of his head was a large spiral.  He recognised this as
the symbol of the Cult of the Bloody Tongue, a particularly violent
Kenyan cult, and had no idea what would bring them to Peru.  Under the
stench of Larkin's strong cologne, Lady Ashdown noticed the faint
smell of rotting meat.

You then broke into Mendoza's room.  In contrast to Larkin's, it was
spotlessly clean, as if it had never been used.  Again, Wilhelmina
unsuccessfully looked for a map.  Jason Steele found a small mirror of
polished gold beneath the mattress, the only personal item in the
room.  Prof. Musgrave examined it... and had a brief vision of white
tentacles bursting through a pyramid.

You decided to come back after a few hours to talk to Larkin when he
was sober again.  Prof. Musgrave went back to his hotel room to rest.
The rest of you confronted Larkin, telling him that Mendoza had killed
a girl at the university, and asking how long Mendoza had been in his
employ.  Larkin expressed shock and disbelief that Mendoza would do
such a thing, and said that he had only known Mendoza for a few
months.  Lady Ashdown realised that Larkin was lying.  Larkin seemed
to have no recollection of your visit that afternoon.

The following morning, you set off to Puno in the Andean foothills.
Larkin was determined that the loss of Mendoza not slow down the
expedition.  This was an uneventful three-day journey by truck, during
which you fought off altitude sickness.

You had one night to rest in Puno before heading out the next morning
to the pyramid on foot.  Most of you chose to stay in the hotel, but
Wilhelmina decided to roam the streets.  She realised an old woman was
following her, and confronted this person.  The old woman asked if
Wilhelmina was with Larkin and, upon hearing that she was but that she
didn't trust Larkin, the woman said to follow her.  She said her name
was Nayra, and that she didn't think it was a good idea to go with
Larkin to the pyramid.  She told a local legend, of an unknown dark
god that fell from the sky into Lake Titicaca, and brought hunger and
famine with it.  One day a hero lured the god into a cave, which was
full of the most delicious tubers and grubs; and sealed the cave with
huge rocks.  A pyramid was then built over the cave, with spells
worked in gold to keep the god imprisoned forever.  Wilhelmina
wondered aloud if the god had escaped[^peru2_1], at which Nayra
crossed herself[^peru2_2] and shuddered.

[^peru2_1]: Out-of-character at this point you were discussing a few
  theories: such as if the golden band at at the university which
  Gaspar Figueroa brought from a pyramid was part of the golden seal
  used to keep the god imprisoned, and if Mendoza was some aspect or
  manifestation of this god who had escaped when the seal was broken.

[^peru2_2]: Nayra seems to follow a mixture of Catholicism and local
  beliefs.

The following morning, you discussed what you knew, and sent a
telegram off to Prof. Sanchez detailing your findings.  You thought
that you might need to bring the gold band to the pyramid, so it's
best for him to be prepared.

You then set out into the jungle with Larkin, using pack animals to
carry your supplies.  No locals would accompany you now.  After a few
hours you stopped for lunch, and Lady Ashdown spied a majestic jaguar
in the distance.

That night around 3am, the noise of one of the pack animals in
distress alerted Dr. Crane, who was on watch, and awakened Lady
Ashdown, a light sleeper.  You found a filthy man, stinking and
dressed in rags, pinning one of the animals to the ground with his
face pressed into it.  Lady Ashdown hit the man in the head with a
crowbar, knocking him off the animal, and revealing that his mouth was
no human mouth: it was circular and full of sharp teeth, much like a
lamprey.  The rest of you had awoken at this point, and easily dealt
with the man.

---

It is now around 3am.

You're all standing around the body of a lamprey-man who was feeding
on one of your pack animals, whose head has been smashed in with a
crowbar.

What do you do?


Peru session 3, 2018-11-11
--------------------------

Dr. Crane examined the body of the man who attacked your pack animals,
and the wound on the animal, and determined that it matched the wound
on Rizo's body back in Lima.  He judged that it was probably a similar
creature which had attacked her.  Larkin appeared shocked, asking
"what was that man?", but you realised he was lying: he seemed
surprised that the attack had occurred, but not by the man's
existence.  You buried the man and the animal to avoid attracting
scavenging animals, and returned to bed.

The second day and night of your journey passed uneventfully.

In the third afternoon, you saw two people heading in the same
direction as you, half a mile ahead.  Larkin suggested they may be
local farmers.  You failed to catch up with them.

You arrived at the pyramid, looking down upon it from half-way up a
mountain.  The plateau which held it had no vegetation, just dirt,
rock, a pit next to the south wall, and the part-buried pyramid with a
crack running along the top.  Two figures were below: you could see
one standing next to the pyramid, and one climbing the side.  The one
climbing the side crouched over the crack for a few minutes, then both
went to the pit next to the south wall and climbed down.

The air swarmed with flies, which Prof. Musgrave identified as
bloatflies, which feed on carrion.

You descended to the pyramid and had a look around.  You found:

* The pit the people had climbed down into, which was full of
  emaciated and shrunken bodies in various states of decay; the air
  full of flies and the stench of death.
* The crack atop the pyramid, about 5cm wide, which did not offer a
  clear view.  It also stank of corruption and swarmed with flies.
* A couple of shafts covered with stone slabs, which appeared to
  descend to some underground tunnels.

You decided to wade through the bodies, following the two people, to
reduce the risk of being caught unawares if you used a different
entrance.  Larkin feigned his illness acting up to avoid going in, but
when confronted confessed that he suffered claustrophobia, and didn't
realise just what it would be like at the pyramid.  Jason Steele
stayed with Larkin while the rest of you descended.

Wandering the narrow tunnels, you found a room full of shiny trinkets
from all ages: coins, jewellery, watches, cutlery, and so on; gathered
and piled up with no apparent organisation.  You also saw the two
people from earlier, fast asleep on filthy mats on the floor.  They
were thin, unnaturally so, but didn't appear to be suffering for it.

You tried to bind the two people, a man and a woman, without waking
them up.  You succeeded with the man, but the woman woke up, but you
managed to subdue her.  You tried questioning her, but got no answer.
You tried giving her food, which she ate, but not with the reckless
abandon you would expect from a victim of starvation.  Leaving them
behind, you continued to explore the tunnels.

You arrived at the buried walls of the pyramid, which had a
familiar-looking golden band embedded into them.  You followed the
band, and reached a point where it had been torn away.  There was a
crack along the wall from the floor to the ceiling, and a hole in the
floor which had filled with a rank-smelling white liquid.  Lady
Ashdown saw rippling in the pool, as if something were moving beneath
the surface.

Dr. Crane lowered a sample container into the pool, and the ripples
surged towards it.  He withdrew the container and examined the
contents, but without much insight.  He tried setting it alight, and
it burst into flames with such a violence he started and dropped the
flaming container into the pool, setting the whole thing alight.
Black smoke billowed into the tunnel.  Jackson Elias dropped to the
ground, and to fresh air, dragging Wilhelmina with him; but the rest
of you inhaled the smoke and collapsed unconscious.

On the surface, Jason Steele saw the smoke emerging, and tried to move
one of the stone slabs covering the shafts, to let the smoke escape
more rapidly.  As he was struggling with that, he heard footsteps from
behind.  He turned, and it was Larkin, but not Larkin as you knew him.
This Larkin stood straight and tall, with no sign of his usual
illness, and his eyes were totally black.  Jason Steele felt his mind
go blank as Larkin said "you will go into the pyramid and destroy the
golden seal."

Jason climbed down into the tunnels, touching the golden band.  He
briefly fought to overcome this compulsion upon him, but could not.
He struck the band with a crowbar, creating a new crack.  A brief
earthquake shook the ground.

Lady Ashdown, Dr. Crane, and Prof. Musgrave regained consciousness
just in time to see Jason Steele strike the band and feel the ground
shake.  "What have you done," Prof. Musgrave cried, and Jason Steele
babbled for a few moments about Larkin.

You decided to try repairing the golden band with the gold in the
other room, as the band was set into the wall of the pyramid, so it
was clear where gold needed to be.  Prof. Musgrave hammered the golden
mirror he found in Luis de Mendoza's room into the cavity in the wall.
You all then turned to go fetch more gold to finish the repair, and
were confronted by Luis de Mendoza, seemingly back from the dead.

"Destroy the seal," he said, the first words you had heard him speak.
He had a gun aimed at you.  When you didn't cooperate, he shot
Prof. Musgrave, who failed to dodge, and lay on the ground bleeding
heavily.  Jason Steele shot Mendoza twice with his shotgun, inflicting
a terrible wound, and knocking him back onto the ground, apparently
dead once more.  The horror of what you all just witnessed began to
sink in: a dead man came back to kill you.  Dr. Crane picked the
bullet out of Prof. Musgrave and bandaged him up.  Prof. Musgrave
gained a nascent phobia of bullets.

You quickly fetched more gold and continued the repair, but nothing
seemed to happen.  Jason Steele decided to pick up Mendoza's body and
see if the seal burned it, like the fragment of seal in the university
storage room did.  But as he picked up Mendoza, the body crumbled away
into dust.  You dashed back to the room with the two people in, and
saw that the man had also turned to dust.  The woman was still alive,
but looked incredibly feeble, and seemed to worsen before your very
eyes.  She seemed confused and afraid, asking what was happening.
Prof. Musgrave offered her some food, but as she reached out her arm
to take it, she fell back dead.

Jason Steele and Prof. Musgrave came out onto the surface to find
Larkin sitting down, looking very feeble, with no sign of the power
which had filled him before.  He told you that he had come to this
pyramid once before, with some locals, and that he didn't really
remember what happened.  He found himself back in Lima, with a
compulsion to find some people to take to the pyramid and destroy the
golden seal.  He couldn't do it himself, it repelled the power within
him.  This is where you, and his expedition, came in.

You then lowered a rope down one of the shafts for the rest of you to
climb out.  Jackson Elias carried a bag full of golden coins, and said
sheepishly "well, this is why we came, right?"

Then we had a time skip to everyone parting ways at the port in Lima.

None of you seemed particularly sad to be leaving Peru, and a few of
you said you'd hope to never cross paths with Larkin again.  Larkin
said that he was just glad everyone survived this expedition, and that
he hoped nothing like this would ever happen again.  Jason Steele and
Dr. Crane realised Larkin was lying; but the point of no return had
been passed, and they couldn't turn back to confront him.

---

This is the end of this chapter.  Bonus sanity points are:

* `+1d6` for killing Luis de Mendoza.
* `+1d8` for restoring the ward on the pyramid.

The next chapter is after a four-year time skip.  We'll start with a
brief character-tweaking phase where I'll award some bonus skill
points.
