---
title: One-shot ideas
taxon: general-games
published: 2020-12-05
---

This is a collection of ideas for one-shots, which I think would all
work as introductions for their respective systems.


Ars Magica
----------

**Genre:** pseudo-historical fantasy

### Werewolves of LÃ¼beck

It's medieval Europe, and all the myths are true.  Angels measure the
courses of rivers and ensure that the trees shed their leaves at the
right time.  Demons tempt men into sin and cause plagues.  Saints
intercede with God on behalf of the living.  Fairies live in the wild
places and fear civilisation and the touch of iron.

Magic is real, however everyone hates magi.  Even the families of magi
hate their magi relatives.  Even magi hate other magi.  Magi are
supernaturally hateable, it's just something that comes with the
ability to use magic.

The greatest magical breakthrough in history, which enabled the
forming of the Order of Hermes, the organisation which governs magi,
was a spell which makes you not hate other magi, and the theory of
magic which came from the same brilliant inventor.

**The PCs** are a group young magi who have set out to establish a new
base of operations, away from their stuffy teachers and superiors in
the Order of Hermes, and have claimed a couple of crumbling towers on
the outskirts of large village.

The local villagers and their priest shun you, but that's about what
you expected.  The nearest other magi, who live in a much more
impressive castle a few villages away, are a bit put out that you're
encroaching on their turf: they're not actively hostile, but they're
not overly friendly either.  They're polite.

And today the village chief, shame and fear plainly visible on his
face, is bowing before you begging you to deal with a werewolf which
has been attacking the villagers these past several months.  This is
the first you've heard of the situation but, well, they don't talk to
you much.


Call of Cthulhu
---------------

**Genre:** pulp horror mystery investigation

All of these scenarios are set in 1920s New England, as presented in
Lovecraft's fiction.  For most people, the world is a normal and
thoroughly human place, but for those in the know---or those who are
very unlucky---there are darker and older truths lurking out there.

### Servants of the Lake

A banker, Gerald Frazer, has contacted **the PCs** to help search for
his missing son James.

James, a bit of a young rebel, abandoned his studies at the Miskatonic
University in Arkham because he missed his girlfriend in Kingsport.
Nine days later, James has not arrived.  What could have happened on
his journey?

### The Disintegrator

*This is a Pulp Cthulhu adventure so it's more action-oriented than
regular Call of Cthulhu*

Professor Lionel Finch, friend of **the PCs**, has contacted you for
your help in investigating a strange auction.

The auction is for a "disintegrator", a device which can apparently
destroy any physical object it's pointed at.  The professor has seen
compelling photographs, which he has been unable to prove frauds.  The
inventor of the device is an engineer of no great genius, who claims
he stumbled upon the principle which makes the device work, and is
selling it because he doesn't have the scientific knowledge to develop
the device any further.  Frankly, it seems a bit hard to believe that
this nobody stumbled upon a principle which will revolutionise physics
if true!

The professor hopes that the device is an elaborate hoax.  But he
worries it's not.  If it's the real deal, could not this device end
the fragile peace and plunge the world into a second Great War?


Godbound
--------

**Genre:** high-powered fantasy

### Everyone is Rand (from The Wheel of Time)

Magic is considered an abberation, something evil and shunned, by the
good people of the world.  They say that the cracks which sometimes
open in the earth and swallow fields and buildings whole are the
lingering effects of those ancient wizards who went mad thousands of
years ago and tore the world apart.

These days one order of magic remains, the Conclave, which sends its
agents out in search of those with the potential to use magic,
bringing those into the fold who will come, and killing those who will
not.  They say that one sworn to the Conclave cannot lie; but they
also say that the truth you think you hear is not the truth that was
intended...

**The PCs** are a bunch of young villagers from a tiny village in the
middle of nowhere, so small it's almost forgotten by the country which
it is nominally a part of.  You've always been normal
salt-of-the-earth types---sons of farmers, daughters of innkeepers,
that sort of thing---until recently, when you have begun to develop
what can only be described as minor magical powers.

To make matters worse, there have been sightings of monsters in the
woods and hills around the village recently.  The first sightings were
around the time you noticed your new powers, come to think of it.

To make matters even worse, an agent of the Conclave has just arrived
in town.

#### Special mechanics

You are level 0 Godbound, normal humans who have received limited use
of some of the divine Words of Creation, and are on the verge of
awakening to your demi-godhood.

You can become a level 1 Godbound and gain your full powers at a time
of your choosing, or at a time when the GM thinks you are under a lot
of stress (physical or mental).

If brought to 0 HP while level 0, you will automatically level up and
enter a Divine Fury.


RuneQuest
---------

**Genre:** bronze age fantasy

All of these scenarios are set in Glorantha, a fantasy bronze-age
setting, specifically in the lands of the Colymar Tribe.

### Defending Apple Lane

**The PCs** are caught up in a raid on the hamlet of Apple Lane by
Tusk Riders, mercenaries previously employed by the Lunar Empire and
turned bandits due to the empire's collapse.

Apple Lane fell on hard times during the Lunar occupation, and
currently has no Thane to defend it.  Can the heroes save it from the
bandits?

### Cattle Raid

The Varmandi, a clan of the Colymar, have fairly little arable land.
Their wealth is their livestock.  While most of the animals are raised
for food or to work, a small number of them belong to the tribal
temple and are sacred to the local Orlanth cult.

It is early Dark Season, the first snow has fallen, and the wild
animals are getting more bold.  **The PCs** been recruited to deal
with a pair of saber-toothed cats which have been threatening the
sacred cattle.


Traveller
---------

**Genre:** far-future sci-fi / space western

### Annic Nova, with Space Pirates

It's the far future, spaceships travel between the stars, and all of
human space is ruled by a military / trading empire called the
Hegemony of Man.  But in many ways space is the new Wild West: space
travel isn't instantaneous, faster-than-light jumps are limited in
range and take a week to execute, so news takes a long time to travel.

**The PCs** are a collection of travellers---a group of people who
roam the stars in a spaceship, doing odd jobs to pay off the galactic
mortgage they had to take out to buy it---and have been offered a
juicy contract by the Hegemony Military.

The military is conducting a large-scale operation against a group of
space pirates operating somewhere beyond the border of Hegemony space.
You and several other ships have been contracted to hunt the pirates
down.  You've been given a list of systems to search and six months to
do it in.  If you find any signs of pirate activity, you're to jump
back to a military staging area and report your findings.

You're now four months into your mission.  You haven't found any
pirate activity yet, but you have developed your approach for
searching for them:

1. Jump into the outer reaches of the system.
2. Scan the immediate area for ships.
3. Fly to a gas giant and siphon hydrogen fuel.
4. Conduct a more thorough search of the system, examining planets and asteroid belts.

And now, once again, the bubble of hyperspace encasing your ship
begins to boil away as you approach the end of another jump.  In
moments, you will arrive in the next system on your list.
