---
title: "Weeknote Special: 2021"
taxon: weeknotes-2021
date: 2021-12-31
---

It's the end of another year, and it's time to take a step back and
look at the bigger picture.


## The Plague

I've still not caught it.

In fact, I've not caught *anything* this year.  No office colds or
anything like that: I think the only time I've been ill since this all
started was when I came down with shingles in September 2020.  It
turns out that staying at home, avoiding nonessential travel, and
wearing a mask when I do go out, is a good way to not get sick.

I've not spent this year totally isolated.  I've visited old friends
and met up with new ones, other than working from home, it's been
about as social a year as usual.  It's just that my "usual" is
everyone else's "not much".


## Work

This whole year I've been tech leading the accounts team.  We've gone
from only having the Brexit checker live to... only having
Notifications live.  Well, ok, we also migrated to the proper
cross-government auth system and made a bunch of changes to GOV.UK to
make it feasible to implement account functionality.

So, while there's been a lot of changes behind the scenes, it would
kind of be nice if we'd launched more features.

I'm still somewhat struggling with being a good tech lead: the team
relies on me quite a lot which is good in one way but bad in another,
as it means that if I'm off for whatever reason, everything slows
down.  I've been trying to improve my communication and planning so
that my head is less essential.

This year I've had a couple of pay rises.  We moved to a new pay
framework back in 2019, which is based on self-reporting how your
skills hold up against a standard framework (subject to line manager
approval).  So of course this just motivates you to go and do things
to get evidence for that skill, to get more money, and then to stop
doing that thing if it's not really directly relevant to your day to
day work.  Once you've demonstrated competency in a skill, you always
have it.

It's a slightly flawed system, but a beneficial one.


## Finance

It's been another good year financially.  Working from home, and not
commuting, has saved me hundreds of pounds a month.

With the savings from not commuting, and the additional income from
payrises, I'm now investing a sizeable chunk of my take-home pay, and
my savings rate over the last few months has been close to 40%.  In
November I hit the very nice milestone of having *two years* expenses
saved / invested: not quite financial independence, but getting there.

I also [ditched my emergency fund][] and updated my [personal finances
memo][].

[ditched my emergency fund]: weeknotes-168.html#systems
[personal finances memo]: personal-finance.html


## Reading

This year I read 63 books, a bit less than last year's 94.  So here's
what I read this year, by category:

- [Light Novels + Manga](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=a3bbb1c6-5ff8-4ddf-81f4-820593a2a5ff)
  - [Little Nuns](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/diva01/litttle-nuns), an art book by [Diva](https://twitter.com/hyxpk)
  - [Hellstar Remina](https://junjiitomanga.fandom.com/wiki/Hellstar_Remina) by Junji Ito
  - Volume 13 of [Overlord](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlord_(novel_series)) by Kugane Maruyama

- [Nonfiction / Computer Science, Software Engineering, + Digital Culture](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=afc7135b-bf67-4284-bcc1-2bbd3386aea3)
  - [Site Reliability Engineering: How Google Runs Production Systems](https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/81UrjwEACAAJ?hl=en) by Betsy Beyer, Chris Jones, Niall Richard Murphy, and Jennifer Petoff
  - [The Site Reliability Workbook: Practical Ways to Implement SRE](https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/fElmDwAAQBAJ?hl=en) by Betsy Beyer, Niall Richard Murphy, Kent Kawahara, David K. Rensin, and Stephen Thorne

- [Nonfiction / Politics, Philosophy, Economics, + History](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=ac4706f3-54c3-4e6d-a72d-85321d9dcd72)
  - [1177 B.C.: The Year Civilization Collapsed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1177_B.C.:_The_Year_Civilization_Collapsed) by Eric H. Cline
  - [The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Rise_and_Fall_of_the_Third_Reich) by William L. Shirer

- [Nonfiction / RPG / Rulebooks](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=219ae9f4-84f1-4ea2-a9cd-fbc16698a669)
  - Call of Cthulhu: Keeper Rulebook (40th Anniversary)
  - Traveller: Core Rulebook
  - Traveller: Central Supply Catalogue
  - Traveller: High Guard
  - Traveller: Traveller Companion
  - Traveller: Vehicle Handbook
  - Traveller: Aliens of Charted Space (vol. 1)
  - Troika!

- [Nonfiction / RPG / Miscellaneous](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=70196ec9-dd61-4241-afc9-dd6be7be30a6)
  - [The Gardens of Ynn](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/237544/The-Gardens-Of-Ynn) by Emmy Allen
  - [The Monsters Know What They're Doing](http://spyandowl.com/the-monsters-know) by Keith Ammann
  - [Live to Tell the Tale](http://spyandowl.com/live-to-tell-the-tale) by Keith Ammann
  - Volumes 1 and 2 of [Knock!: An Adventure Gaming Bric-a-brac](https://www.themerrymushmen.com/our-products/) by various authors
  - [The Complete Kobold Guide to Game Design](https://koboldpress.com/kpstore/product/complete-kobold-guide-to-game-design-2nd-edition/) by Janna Silverstein *et al*
  - [The Kobold Guide to Combat](https://koboldpress.com/kpstore/product/kobold-guide-to-combat/) by Janna Silverstein *et al*
  - [The Kobold Guide to Magic](https://koboldpress.com/kpstore/product/kobold-guide-to-magic/) by Ray Vallese *et al*
  - [Hamlet's Hit Points: Unlock the Game-Mastering Power of Three Classic Tales](https://gameplaywright.net/books/hamlets-hit-points/) by Robin D. Laws
  - [Izirion's Enchiridion of the West Marches](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/333956/Izirions-Enchiridion-of-the-West-Marches) by Dom Liotti and Sam Sorensen
  - Volume 1 of [The Peridot](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/182353/The-Peridot-Issue-1) by David McGrogan
  - Volumes 1 to 6 of [The Journal of the Traveller's Aid Society](https://wiki.travellerrpg.com/Mongoose_2nd:_Journal_of_the_Travellers%27_Aid_Society) by Matthew Sprange *et al*

- [Nonfiction / Miscellaneous](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=fb2dd601-883a-4254-a294-fcf0a0f98d2f)
  - [The Great Indoors](http://emilyanthes.com/thegreatindoors/) by Emily Anthes

- [Prose Fiction + Graphic Novels](https://bookdb.barrucadu.co.uk/search?keywords=&author%5B%5D=&location=&match=&category=590ac55d-0644-4a71-b902-587faa5b03d9)
  - [Helliconia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helliconia) by Brian Aldiss
  - [Surface Detail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surface_Detail) by Iain M. Banks
  - [The Hydrogen Sonata](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hydrogen_Sonata) by Iain M. Banks
  - [The Forge of God](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Forge_of_God) by Greg Bear
  - [The Stars My Destination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Stars_My_Destination) by Alfred Bester
  - [World War Z](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_War_Z) by Max Brooks
  - [A Fall of Moondust](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Fall_of_Moondust) by Arthur C. Clarke
  - [Babel-17](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babel-17) by Samuel R. Delany
  - [Dust of Dreams](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Dust_of_Dreams) by Steven Erikson
  - [Fall of Light](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Fall_of_Light) by Steven Erikson
  - [Forge of Darkness](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Forge_of_Darkness) by Steven Erikson
  - [Gardens of the Moon](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Gardens_of_the_Moon) by Steven Erikson
  - [The Crippled God](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/The_Crippled_God) by Steven Erikson
  - [Toll the Hounds](https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Toll_the_Hounds) by Steven Erikson
  - [Count Zero](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Count_Zero) by William Gibson
  - [Mona Lisa Overdrive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mona_Lisa_Overdrive) by William Gibson
  - [Horrorst√∂r](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horrorst%C3%B6r) by Grady Hendrix
  - Volumes 2 to 6 of [Black Wings of Cthulhu](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39912887-black-wings-of-cthulhu) by S. T. Joshi *et al*
  - [The Space Merchants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Space_Merchants) by Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth
  - [The Space Trilogy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Space_Trilogy) by C. S. Lewis
  - [Dancers at the End of Time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dancers_at_the_End_of_Time#The_Dancers_at_the_End_of_Time) by Michael Moorcock
  - [Mimes](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14459517-mimes-with-a-prologue-and-epilogue) by Marcel Schwob
  - [Ilium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilium_(novel)) by Dan Simmons
  - [Olympos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilium/Olympos) by Dan Simmons
  - Volume 2 of [The Book of the New Sun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Book_of_the_New_Sun) by Gene Wolfe
  - [Lord of Light](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord_of_Light) by Roger Zelazny

My top three books read in 2021 are:

- **The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich**

  This book took me years to get through.  It's dense, it's got
  problems (*e.g.* the author brings up, multiple times, the presence
  of gays in the early Nazi party as evidence of its moral failings),
  and it takes a while to get to the interesting bits.  But when it
  got there, I immediately forgave the earlier problems.
  
  The author does a good job of expressing what could easily just be a
  collection of dry facts as an engaging narrative.  Scholarly opinion
  of the book isn't very high, however, and I'll likely read something
  more highly praised (such as Richard Evans' The Third Reich Trilogy)
  at some point.

- **Traveller Core Rulebook**

  Yes, it's a bit weird to pick a rulebook as one of my top books of
  the year.  Rulebooks aren't so fun to read in isolation and, what's
  worse, as a piece of technical writing this one isn't particularly
  great either.  Mongoose Publishing doesn't have the best editing: so
  it has typos, inconsistencies, sometimes unclear rules, and no index
  (which it sorely needs).
  
  But despite its problems, the game is a lot of fun, and I expect the
  Traveller campaign I started to last for much of 2022.

- **The Crippled God**

  The ending to the truly epic-in-scope Malazan Book of the Fallen,
  and it didn't let me down.  I've raved about Malazan enough in other
  weeknotes so, to not repeat all that, just know that this series is
  well worth checking out if you like high fantasy and well-developed
  worldbuilding.  There is a prequel trilogy I've been reading (the
  final book isn't out yet) and a sequel I'll start some time next
  year.


## Gaming

Last year I started a second group, and this year I joined a third.
At this rate in four more years, I'll be playing or running a game
every single night.  So right now my games are:

- **Tuesday Group**
  - Ars Magica
- **Saturday Group**
  - Stars Without Number
  - Monster of the Week
- **Sunday Group**
  - Traveller
  - Whitehack

The D&D 5e, Pulp Cthulhu, Wolves of God, and FAE games from last year
have all come to an end.  This year I've also played or ran short
games of Troika!, Genesys, Godbound, and Lady Blackbird.

I'm running the Ars Magica and Traveller games.  They're both going
well, though the Ars Magica game is a lot of work and we're likely
going to end it after four or five more sessions.

I got into Traveller by watching [Seth Skorkowsky's review / overview
series][] and first ran a one-shot of it in late 2020.  Now we're
doing a full sandbox campaign (set in [the Trojan Reach sector][])
which, so far, has been focussed on trading and doing small jobs, but
is potentially heading towards space piracy, which would be fun.  I'm
looking forward to seeing where it goes.

I also started an RPG blog, [Look What the Shoggoth Dragged In][],
which I'm hoping to write more for in the next year.

[Seth Skorkowsky's review / overview series]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL25p5gPY6qKVUg6ys5N1oRlsBI7DTByyI
[the Trojan Reach sector]: https://travellermap.com/?p=-98.982!18.778!5.95&options=41983
[Look What the Shoggoth Dragged In]: https://www.lookwhattheshoggothdraggedin.com/


## Miscellaneous

In late 2020 I started tracking my time.  Well, in late 2021 [I
stopped][].  After almost a year I decided that it wasn't worth the
effort and introduced some poor incentives, and so I decided to drop
it.

[I stopped]: weeknotes-168.html#systems
