---
title: "Weeknotes: 154"
taxon: weeknotes-2021
date: 2021-08-29
---

## Work

This week I was still on support on Monday and Tuesday, and returned
to the team on Wednesday.  I was able to work through some of the
integration with our new auth service, noting down issues with the
documentation and other problems and points of confusion which
occurred to me, but on the whole things are going well.

The other backend developer on the team is now off for two weeks, so
things will be a bit slower.  I'll spend the time getting the auth
integration done and looking for other areas of improvement.


## Books

No books this week.


## Gaming

### Traveller

First real session of Traveller this week, and it was interesting.
Playing with a different GM is a good way to broaden your horizons:
for example, in *this* group, conversation between the players is
assumed to have some in-character manifestation; whereas in my other
two groups, the players often talk amongst themselves a lot, which can
bog the pace of the game down.  I'd been considering imposing a rule
like this, so it was good to see some examples of it being done.

It's also been good to get to grips with the Traveller rules from a
player's perspective, as there have been things I had misunderstood or
forgotten, and it made me rethink the importance of adding a ship
sheet to my [custom Traveller character sheet for Roll20][].

[custom Traveller character sheet for Roll20]: https://github.com/barrucadu/roll20-character-sheets/commit/99510a0d7c48075d3a5b55b82afe4d8754c14c79

### Minecraft

A friend set up a Minecraft 1.17.1 server, so I've been playing around
with that.  I've not *really* looked at Minecraft much since before
the Nether update, which came out over a year ago; so there's a bunch
of new stuff.

Though, in a way, it feels a bit of a shame to be playing *now*, as it
looks like 1.18 will have big changes to world generation, and of
course an existing world will need to be thrown away (or we'll all
need to move beyond the current chunks, which is effectively the same
thing) to get the new bits.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying Games

- [RPG Essentialism & RPG Exceptionalism](https://lumpley.games/2021/08/23/a-theory-point-rpg-essentialism-rpg-exceptionalism/)
