---
title: "Weeknotes: 208"
taxon: weeknotes-2022
date: 2022-09-11
---

## The Queen is Dead, Long Live the King!

Wow, what a week.  In years to come, people will ask "where were you when the
Queen died?"

I was at home, watching the BBC live feed.  I'd seen the earlier news that she
was under medical supervision.  That alone was a very bad sign.  Then, the
royals started flocking to Balmoral, which could only be an "hours, days at
best" sort of situation.  There hadn't been any further announcement, but for
such a public figure, it could only mean one thing.

And then a few hours later, the announcement came.

I'm fairly left-wing and believe in democracy, but I'm also a fan of the
monarchy.  They're a powerful symbol, and there's value in having [symbolic
power separate from political power][].  Also, she's always been around.  Of
course, I knew she wouldn't last forever, but it was still a shock for her to
suddenly be gone.  It's made me sadder than I expected.

So now we have a king.  King Charles III.  It'll take a while to get used to
hearing "God save the King!"  It's been very interesting watching all these
ceremonies and proclamations that last happened so many years ago.  But, of
course, Charles is in his 70s: this isn't the last royal succession I'll see in
my life.  In another 20 or 30 years we'll be proclaiming King William sovereign.

Whatever your feelings on the monarchy, Queen Elizabeth II clearly loved her
country and her people.  She worked to almost the very end, fulfilling her
constitutional duty of welcoming the new Prime Minister mere days before her
death, at the age of 96.

Overall, I'm somewhat glad I left GOV.UK months ago and so was no longer on the
dead-monarch on-call rota.

[symbolic power separate from political power]: https://twitter.com/culturaltutor/status/1568969472584589312


## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 5 of [Delicious in Dungeon][] by Ryoko Kui

  You know I said they achieved their goal last volume?  Well, that didn't last.
  Onward, into the dungeon!  There are missing people to find and monsters to
  eat.

- [The God is Not Willing][] by Steven Erikson, the first book of the [Witness Trilogy][]

  I really enjoyed this.  I wasn't a huge fan of Karsa Orlong in the main
  Malazan books, so I wasn't sure how I'd feel about a whole trilogy focussing
  on him, but it was very good, and he didn't actually appear at all: he was
  only a background figure.  I'm looking forward to the next book coming out,
  though if I could chain Steven Erikson to a writing desk and force him to
  finish a book of my choosing, it'd be the final book of the Kharkanas Trilogy
  instead.

[Delicious in Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delicious_in_Dungeon
[The God is Not Willing]: https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/The_God_is_Not_Willing
[Witness Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malazan_Book_of_the_Fallen#The_Witness_Trilogy


## Roleplaying Games

This was a busy week, with me running three sessions.  But it's a lot of fun,
why would I want anything else?

### GoAdventuring

The work game.  "GoAdventuring" because I work for GoCardless, get it?

Well, this didn't go as planned.  Last time, the initial group of 5 players
finished [Winter's Daughter][] and gave me the *perfect* hook for a "return of
the frost elves" campaign, two new players wanted to join too, and so I planned
a Council of Elrond style meeting, with all PCs gathered by a wizard to deal
with the elvish threat.  But by total coincidence, none of the initial 5 could
make it this week!

Can't really kick off the main quest if none of the characters who'd done the
prologue were present.  So I decided to postpone the council, and run a very
short, single-session, prologue for the two new characters, so they too would
have a shared NPC with the rest of the party.

Session time came around.  One of the new players joined, the other did not.  We
created his character while we waited... and the other player still didn't
arrive.  "Off sick" was their Slack status, oh dear.

We decided to go ahead anyway, so the character got hired by the wizard to look
into some suspicious stuff, the character in turn hired a retainer so they
wouldn't be setting off into the Dolmenwood by themselves, and off they went to
investigate some standing stones!  Their retainer was instantly killed by
zombies, so the player spent most of the session being fairly cautious and
keeping well away from danger, but it was still successful, with a fun time had
by all (all two of us).  And now they have what I wanted: a connection to and
suspicion of the same wizard NPC the first 5 characters are suspicious of.

All's well that ends well.  So when the council happens in a few weeks time, 5
characters will already know each other, the 6th will not know the others but
will know the shared NPC, and the 7th won't know anybody at all, but we can just
handle that by saying "off screen, in your backstory, you've also done a job for
this sketchy wizard", just like I originally planned to.

And *then* we can get into the main quest.

[Winter's Daughter]: https://necroticgnome.com/products/dolmenwood-winters-daughter

### Cartographic Curiosities

My other Dolmenwood game!  This session we spent a lot of time shopping, which
really isn't ideal and I'll have to try to speed that up a bit next time.  But
we did get some actual gaming in, too.

The party set off to Harrowmoor Keep to meet and be rewarded by Lady Harrowmoor
for finding out where her daughter was being held captive.  They did a little
exploration on the way there, finding an imposing standing stone marking (they
have figured out) the confluence of two ley lines.  At this stone, they
encountered an undead lady, bound to the area, sacrificed by the mysterious
forest-sorcerers known as the Drune.  When leaving, the party were accosted by
two of these Drune, who sent them on their way back to the road, with a warning
to stay out of the woods.

At the Keep, the party got their reward (gold and horses), met the squire
character's tutor knight (newly missing an arm, lost in rescuing the child), and
asked about the Drune only to learn that nobody really knows much about them,
other than them being godless heathens who claim much of the forest as their
own.

Finally, the party began investigating the burial mound of Sir Chyde,[^wd] only
to decide to leave, go back to civilisation, and do some research on him
(fantastic, players who *want* more lore!).  They very quickly figured out that
the guardians in the entrance hall attack non-Lawful characters, but these sort
of puzzles, while simple, add a bit of flavour to dungeons, as they're now
wondering why those guardians are there and whether the wizard who hired them
did so because the guardians prevent him from entering the mound.

[^wd]: Yes, more Winter's Daughter.  I think it's a really great little dungeon,
  and does a very good job of introducing some of the Dolmenwood lore without
  just dumping all it on the players.

Unfortunately, I think the players are being just a bit too cautious.  Yes,
low-level OSE characters are flimsy, but they're level 3 now and are still
running away from everything.  I'll have a look at some alternative rules to
make the game just a bit less lethal, perhaps the [Goblinpunch Death &
Dismemberment rules][].

[Goblinpunch Death & Dismemberment rules]: https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2016/01/my-favorite-month-is-dismember.html

### Wicked Ones

This week I kicked off my [Wicked Ones][] campaign, with a joint session 0 & 1.
We didn't get through everything I'd hoped we would, but that was fairly
ambitious for the three hours we had.  Character creation and choosing the
dungeon theme took a little under half the session, then we had a short break,
then we spent the rest of the session introducing the characters, capturing the
dungeon, and starting to map it out.  The entrance to the dungeon is through the
crypts beneath an abandoned chapel, and their servitors are little animate
skeleton fragments (think skeletal hands scurrying across the floor like bony
spiders), which is pretty cool.

All of those steps have their own little mechanics, so there was a lot of me
flipping back and forth through the book as we went.

We're going to chat about the dungeon and the local area over Discord between
sessions, and at the start of the next session put down all that detail on the
map and then get into the game proper.

I need to go over the rules again to make sure I ran everything correctly, but
it was fun, and I'm looking forward to the next session.

[Wicked Ones]: https://banditcamp.io/wickedones/


## Miscellaneous

I've now been using [doom emacs][] for a week.

I've made a few tweaks the config as I come across things I didn't realise I
needed, but on the whole it's pretty nice and does what I want.  I think I'll be
sticking with this and retiring my previous emacs config, but I'll give it a
little longer just to be sure.

[doom emacs]: https://doomemacs.org/
