---
title: "Weeknotes: 166"
taxon: weeknotes-2021
date: 2021-11-21
---

## Work

I took this week off work.  This is the most contiguous time off I've
taken [since July][], so it was very nice to have a break.

Once again, my financial dependence on an employer makes me very sad.

[since July]: weeknotes-149.html


## Books

This week, no books.  I think I need to get some new reading material
again: most of the unread books I've got left are RPG rulebooks and
nonfiction, and I only read those when the mood strikes.


## Gaming

### Ars Magica

I ran the first session of my new Ars Magica campaign this week.  The
player characters were enlisted to help find the missing village
children, who nobody had seen for some hours.  It was the vernal
equinox---a night of folklore and magic---and the children had fallen
under the influence of a [kelpie][], which was intent on acting out
its story of drowning unwary victims.

There wasn't really much to do, the characters just had to (1) find
the entrance to fairyland, (2) walk in a straight line through a fairy
forest which would try to confuse their sense of direction, and (3)
drive off the kelpie somehow.  Very straightforward to run, and not
much choice for the players.  I came up with an intentionally simple
plot so that we'd be able to ease into the system, and this turned out
to be a good idea, as even with just this we had to consult the spell
creation rules a bunch (which I'd expected).  What I didn't expect was
that, initially, they saw this large faerie horse beast and thought
"well, we don't have any spells to ward against the fey, guess we have
to physically defeat it".  But after one of them almost dying (doing
the Ars Magica equivalent of making death saves), and another
realising there *was* a magical solution, I hope they'll be more
likely to try magic first next time.

I definitely failed to predict how long it would take though, I had a
whole second adventure (visiting and making a favourable impression on
the abbot of a nearby monastery) planned which we didn't have time to
get into at all.

[kelpie]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelpie

### Inscryption

This week I got into [Inscryption][], a weird deck-building /
escape-room game which feels like you're trapped in a cabin with a mad
game master who's making up rules as he goes.

Or at least, the first part is.  There's a second part which seems
very different based on the little of it I've played so far, and I'm
not sure if I'm going to give it much of a go, as it was the weird
atmosphere which really attracted me to the game initially.  Maybe the
weirdness returns?  I'm not sure I want to put in the time to find
out.

[Inscryption]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1092790/Inscryption/

### Minecraft

We've got a release date for Minecraft 1.18, [the 30th][]!

I'm not much of a Minecraft player these days, I tend to get bored
once I've got a self-sufficient base up and running (which doesn't
take very long at all), as building big things doesn't interest me
that much.  I'm definitely not the game's target audience.

But I do like giving it a go every now and then, and playing on
servers with friends, and 1.18 brings some pretty fundamental changes
to world generation I'm looking forward to trying out.

[the 30th]: https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/caves---cliffs-update-part-ii-coming


## Miscellaneous

This week I caught up on some TV: I watched [The Mandalorian][] and
[Foundation][].  Both were pretty great, lots of very cool visuals
(like [this FTL jump][] from episode 1 of Foundation[^jump]).  I'm
looking forward to more.

[^jump]: In fact, I think this is the single coolest rendition of FTL
  jumps I've come across.  If this series had come out before I
  started my Traveller game, I would have been very strongly tempted
  to re-do all the standard ship deckplans to have a big rotating
  black hole-powered jump drive.

If I had to make a criticism, it's that I'm finding the Empire
storyline of Foundation much more enthralling than, well, the
*Foundation* storyline of Foundation.  I think this speaks to the
sorts of stories I prefer.  The Empire storyline is about large
galaxy-shaking events, and the collapse of a dynasty.  It's more about
the events than the people.  Whereas the Foundation storyline is much
more about the individuals, and the events themselves are much smaller
in scale.  But I much prefer the large-scale things!

I also intend to check out [The Wheel of Time][], probably sooner
rather than later; though I'm a bit worried by some of the aesthetic
and story changes I've heard they've made.

[The Mandalorian]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mandalorian
[Foundation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundation_(TV_series)
[this FTL jump]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGJM03cOmTg
[The Wheel of Time]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wheel_of_Time_(TV_series)


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying Games

- [Building Better Gods](https://arsludi.lamemage.com/index.php/2290/building-better-gods/)
- [The Haunting - How to Run Call of Cthulhu](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U6lCEhnBSSs)
- [Real-World Herbalism for DnD Campaigns](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2KZlOwDFmE)

### Miscellaneous

- [Even Rainbows Have a Dark Side](https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/pointing-at-rainbows-taboo)
