---
title: "Weeknotes: 169"
taxon: weeknotes-2021
date: 2021-12-12
---

## Work

For half of this week, we had a "firebreak": a few days to work on
stuff which is usually low priority and so left to fester.  I switched
off our prototype apps---which haven't been in use for over a
month---and also updated some documentation and deleted some dead
code.  We're continuing the firebreak next week: I plan to run a
session for other GOV.UK developers to try to debug some
accounts-related problems I'll set up, and add documentation where
it's needed.

We then rolled our "single-page notifications" feature out to a few of
the Coronavirus pages.  Eventually it'll be on most pages.

Then I got pulled into some work to split up our massive postgres RDS
instance and upgrade to postgres 13, which involved running a
Terraform mobbing session.  I don't write much Terraform, and the docs
assume you know all the AWS terminology, but we got something done at
least.  Next week I'll finish that off, and hopefully we can start to
move data around.


## Books

This week I read:

- [Gardens of the Moon][] by Steven Erikson, the first of the [Malazan Book of the Fallen][]

  Yes, I have started to re-read Malazan.  I'm not sure if I'll
  continue through the full series, but I've at least returned to this
  first book.  Gardens of the Moon was written a decade before the
  other books, and there are definitely some inconsistencies I
  noticed: some timescales seem different, some terminology is
  different, and one minor character is a different gender.

  This got me thinking, as Malazan was originally the setting of
  Erikson's RPG campaign.  I'd imagined this really grand thing, and
  wondered how two men could come up with such an incredibly deep
  game.  But, returning to the book, it's pretty clear that things got
  refined as the series was being written.  The actual Malazan
  campaign was probably a much more humble, and approachable, thing.

[Gardens of the Moon]: https://malazan.fandom.com/wiki/Gardens_of_the_Moon
[Malazan Book of the Fallen]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malazan_Book_of_the_Fallen


## Gaming

### Ars Magica

I'm still figuring out *how* to run Ars Magica.  To start with I
focussed on having short problems which could be resolved in a single
session, so that we could still get through at least one "season" per
session.

But in last week's session, this week's session, and next week's
session, I'm doing something more traditional.  Last week I introduced
a problem and an opportunity.  This week they finished dealing with
the problem, and started to pursue the opportunity.  Next session
they'll still be dealing with it, as they didn't finish it this week.
So that'll be three sessions, at least, played in close-to-real-time,
like a more conventional RPG.

I guess a strength of Ars Magica is that it does support long-term
play well, so it doesn't feel like a waste of potential adventuring
time if one session spans months or years, whereas another covers just
a few days.

### Traveller

This week, a player left the group.  Things in their life changed, and
they wouldn't be able to make the game for the foreseeable future.  So
they've dropped out for now.

It's sad when scheduling can't work out, but we've had a good run:
their first session was on the 12th of April, 2020, in [Golden Sky
Stories][].

[Golden Sky Stories]: http://starlinepublishing.com/our-games/golden-sky-stories/


## Link Roundup

- [The 5 Most Common Jobs in a Medieval City](https://www.medievalists.net/2021/11/most-common-jobs-medieval-city/)
