---
title: "Weeknotes: 210"
taxon: weeknotes-2022
date: 2022-09-25
---

## Books

This week I read:

- [The Black Company][] by Glen Cook

  This is it, the story that popularised the military fantasy subgenre.  It's
  surprisingly short, at least compared to the modern fantasy epics like
  Malazan, being only 274 pages long.  Can fantasy really be so concise?
  Apparently so.

  I enjoyed it, though it definitely feels a bit rough in parts.  Authors like
  Steven Erikson have refined the concept, and so the original is weak in
  comparison.  But it's certainly not *bad*, it tells the story it means to
  tell, does so competently, and it didn't feel like it was abbreviated at all.
  It's also the first book in a series, the rest of which I will definitely be
  checking out.

  It's no Malazan, but without the Black Company, Malazan wouldn't be either.

[The Black Company]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Company


## Roleplaying Games

### Wicked Ones

Session 3 this week, and I think I'm getting the hang of the rules.  This time I
handed off narration of actions to the players entirely: after their roll I
summarised the mechanical result and asked them to describe the whole thing
("ok, you're going to hurt him, but he also hurts you, what does that look
like?"), which I found easier than the suggested approach of the player starting
to describe the outcome, then taking over the narration at the point it goes
bad.  There were a couple of times where the player narrated a pretty weak
version of the consequence, so I had to take over and adjust that, but on the
whole it worked.

I think the next thing I need to get a hang of is dealing out stress.  It's a
pretty important mechanic, which drives a lot of other things, but I think the
players only took two points all session.  Which is pretty bad given that stress
resets every downtime, and downtime happens roughly once a session too.  I think
ideally on average one player will fill up their stress clock, which is 6 points
of stress, every cycle.  So two points across four players isn't going to cut
it.

### Traveller

Looking back at my previous campaign, and thinking forward to the next one, I've
identified a change I want to make.  Previously, I ran the game in "real-time":
there were only a couple of time-skips between sessions, all other time was
played out at the table.  This was largely because time is important in
Traveller: ships need to have maintenance done monthly, and bills (like mortgage
payments and crew wages) are also usually monthly.

I felt like if I skipped time without giving the players the opportunity to earn
money during that time, I was just imposing consequences on them unfairly.

But actually... playing out all that time was worse!  If the players wanted to
travel from one world to a distant one, rather than taking a few minutes to roll
for a mishap and otherwise hand-waving the journey, instead they wanted to pick
up cargo and passengers at every stop along the way, and so travel took a lot of
time at the table.  And by starting each session where the previous one left
off, I couldn't skip straight to the action: no starting the session in the
middle of a job, at the point at which it turned exciting; no, we'd play through
acquiring the job and doing the non-exciting prologue too.  And if the players
didn't take the job, that prep was wasted.

So for the *next* campaign, I'm going to propose in session 0 that I be a lot
freer with time-skips.  Sure, if we end a session in the middle of something,
we'll start the next session immediately afterwards.  But otherwise I'll start
the next session possibly weeks later, with whatever adventure I have prepared.
At the moment I'm thinking of just pausing the financials during any time skip.
Bills get paid, maintenance gets done, and so on, and we resume with exactly the
same money that we left off with: they've just so happened to make that money
back during the skip.


## Miscellaneous

I started watching [The Rings of Power][], Amazon's new series about the second
age, which they're making without owning the rights to any second age material
(The Silmarillion, The Unfinished Tales).

It's good so far, albeit *very* slow.  Five episodes in and it all feels like
prologue.  At this rate we'll end the first season without getting to the
action.  That's not *bad* necessarily, but it will get frustrating if it feels
like the tension keeps building and building but never actually reaches a
climax.

We've had a lot of big names show up: Galadriel, Elrond (young Elrond looks very
different to old Elrond, clearly he ages a lot over the next few centuries, they
must be quite stressful), Gil-galad, Celebrimbor, Sauron, Pharazon, Elendil,
Isildur, two of the many Durins, Gandalf (I assume), and a race of
proto-Hobbits.  It seems like they're trying to cover all the major events of
the time: the rise of Sauron, the fall of Numenor, the forging of the rings of
power, the arrival of the Istari... there's a lot!

[The Rings of Power]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lord_of_the_Rings:_The_Rings_of_Power
