---
title: "Weeknotes: 157"
taxon: weeknotes-2021
date: 2021-09-19
---

## Work

Not much to report this week.  A new developer joined the team, so I
spent some time onboarding him; I also continued with the work to
integrate with our new auth service; and I made some small code
improvements.


## Books

This has been a good week for books.  My dad brought over some boxes
of books which I'd left in his loft years ago, so I've been sorting
through those, figuring out what to keep and what to donate.

I also bought myself a few new books, including the two books so far
of the [Kharkanas Trilogy][], which is a prequel of the [Malazan Book
of the Fallen][].  I've been enjoying it a lot.

But, with 855 books in my home, I've run out of shelf space.  Can I
fit in more shelves?  Will I have to conduct a purge?  Tune in next
time.

[Kharkanas Trilogy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Kharkanas_Trilogy
[Malazan Book of the Fallen]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malazan_Book_of_the_Fallen


## Gaming

After 30 sessions, starting in May last year, my Call of Cthulhu
campaign has ended.

It ended not with a whimper but with a bang: one character threw a
stick of dynamite at the cultist mad scientist, on the lip of a
dormant volcano.  The villain tried to dive away, but was too slow in
his damaged robot suit, and took almost the full force of the
explosion.  Ending him, and his nefarious plans.

We had a flash-forward to the date when the cult planned to conduct
its great ritual... and the world did not end.  Good job, player
characters!

It's a little sad that it's over, but it was a good place to end, and
the campaign had lasted a while.  It'll be nice to do something else,
and so we'll be starting Traveller in a couple of weeks time.


## Link Roundup

- ["Do this! Do that!, And Nothing will happen": Do specifications lead to securely stored passwords?](https://research-information.bris.ac.uk/en/publications/do-this-do-that-and-nothing-will-happen-do-specifications-lead-to)
