---
title: "Weeknotes: 199"
taxon: weeknotes-2022
date: 2022-07-10
---

## Books

No books!  It's been too hot to do anything but lay around.


## Roleplaying Games

This week I resumed my Traveller game, after a little break, and
kicked off what I'm thinking of as the "second arc" of the campaign.
This time, I'm trying something a little different.

The players like the idea of a sandbox campaign where they're able to
go anywhere and do anything, but in practice I don't think they're
being self-directed enough for that.  We've had times where the
players completed a job, someone asked "well, what do we do now?", and
then there was an awkward period of silence before someone suggested
"I guess we'll go to our friend at so-and-so and see if he's got any
work for us."  I've tried throwing them some bones to inspire them to
come up with their own goals, but it's not really worked.

A couple of months back, I did a little survey about the state of the
campaign, and the general feeling was that they wanted to have more
external pressure and for things to be faster-paced.  I made some
immediate changes then but now, since we've had a break and are
starting a new segment of the campaign, I'm being more direct.

I've picked a theme for the next bit of the campaign, I've decided on
some high stakes,[^stakes] and I will have NPCs give them two
significant missions in that theme.  They'll still have free time to
get up to their own thing, but these missions will provide a strong
default action (and some time pressure) which should cut down on
uncertainty.  I'll present the arc as a unit of story, with a
beginning, middle, and end.  And then at the end we'll have another
break for another one-shot, and I'll do another survey about how
things are going.

[^stakes]: Whether two planets join an interstellar alliance the
  players are working for or not.

My goal is that the players know their options (rather than feeling
lost and defaulting to asking an NPC for some help), feel under enough
pressure that they have to make trade-offs and difficult choices, and
that the arc as a whole feels coherent and satisfying to the point
where we *could* end the campaign here,[^end] without it feeling like
we're just stopping arbitrarily.

[^end]: Not that I'm planning to.

We've had the first session of the arc.  The stakes have been hinted
at.  They've begun the first mission.  Now to see how this plays out.


## Miscellaneous

I paid off my student loan this week.

I had enough cash lying around, and thought "gee, it sure would be
nice not to see that massive deduction on my payslip every month", and
so I rang up and paid it off over the phone.


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [Seiges & Sappers: the D&D from a parallel universe without Gygax](https://www.woodbetween.world/2022/07/seiges-sappers-d-from-parallel-universe.html)
