---
title: "Weeknotes: 190"
taxon: weeknotes-2022
date: 2022-05-08
---

## Work

Same project, still making progress.  Next week I'm going to start
ramping up as a "first responder", which is the in-hours support rota.
That should be good for teaching me parts of the system I've not
touched yet.

Today marks 2 months since I started.


## Books

No books this week.


## Gaming

This week I ran my non-Traveller group through [High and Dry][], an
introductory adventure about being sent to a backwater planet to
retrieve a spaceship.

Since Traveller character creation can take a while, I rolled up some
characters in advance, though two of the players ended up wanting to
make their own before the session anyway.  And then, since I wanted to
get through the whole thing in a single session, I wrote down how long
I expected each part of the adventure to take.  I ended up not really
having to hurry along anything, and the ending was chaotic and fast
paced, which is what I'd intended.

It went well, everyone had a good time.  Will this lead to future
Traveller adventures with this group?  Who knows, but it would be
nice.

Traveller is definitely one of my two favourite systems now, the other
being Call of Cthulhu.  Next I just need to find my ideal fantasy
system, and that's the major bases covered.

Unrelatedly, I wrote up [a short list of campaign ideas][].  I'm not
nearing the end of a campaign right now, but it'll be handy to have to
hand when I am.  And I can add to it as I have more ideas in the
future.

[High and Dry]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tym86AcYwuU
[a short list of campaign ideas]: campaign-ideas.html


## Miscellaneous

I spent some time this week playing [Patron][], a city-builder which
looked like a more complex version of [Banished][].  Alas, it's not
quite what I hoped for.

It's definitely got more depth to it than Banished, but I also found
it pretty easy.  Even set to "extreme" difficulty, on my very first
attempt I got a successful city up and running and ended up completing
all the research in the game and drowning in resources.  I then
decided to aim for no deaths or emigration on a "challenging" map,
which took me a few attempts, but I got there fairly quickly.

It seems most of the difficulty in the game is in getting through the
first 5 or so years.  If you manage that, then you have a
self-sufficient small settlement, which you can expand gradually and
solve any new problems which come up with money.

I think one aspect of the game which definitely makes it easier than
it needs to be is the logistics system.  The depot / warehouse system
is global: you can put any resource into any depot / warehouse, and
take any resource out of any depot / warehouse.  Resources are not
stored per depot / warehouse, so you can just generously put down
depots all over the place and transportation of resources becomes a
non-issue.  If instead resources had to be moved from where they're
produced to where they're used, road layout and suchlike would need
more careful thought.

Another significant problem is that it's really easy to over-produce
resources once you have the funds to fully upgrade buildings and
research policies.  Furthermore, basically all the resources are
infinite (eg, mines don't run out, and you can just keep slapping down
adjacent fishing huts without decreasing productivity of nearby ones).

So, it's fun for a while, it's got some nice extra complexity compared
to Banished, but it's also far too easy.

[Patron]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1538570/Patron/
[Banished]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/242920/Banished/


## Link Roundup

- [The Railroading Manifesto â€“ Addendum: I Want To Be Railroaded](https://thealexandrian.net/wordpress/47577/roleplaying-games/the-railroading-manifesto-addendum-i-want-to-be-railroaded)
- [Aslan Clan Status](https://greatdungeonnorth.blogspot.com/2022/05/aslan-clan-status.html)
