---
title: "Weeknotes: 209"
taxon: weeknotes-2022
date: 2022-09-18
---

## Books

This week I read:

- Volume 6 of [Delicious in Dungeon][] by Ryoko Kui

  Not much to say: it's more of the same.

[Delicious in Dungeon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delicious_in_Dungeon


## Roleplaying Games

### Cartographic Curiosities

Got some unfortunate feedback after this week's session: the players aren't
happy with the difficulty.  As one player put it, "I can't think of a single
encounter so far that we actually profited from in a way that felt satisfying".

That's not good.  But looking back, I can certainly see how that could be the
case.

On the plus side, they all like the setting.  So hopefully this is salvageable.
Going forward I'm going to be freer with information (which is never a bad
thing, since I am their eyes and ears), we're introducing a few new house rules,
and I might revise the random encounters.

If that's not enough, I might try switching systems entirely to something more
heroic than OSE, perhaps Worlds Without Number.  Watch this space.

### Wicked Ones

Session 2 this week, in which we finished setting up the dungeon and the local
area, got to recruit some minions and torture a prisoner, and then fight off a
significant adventurer invasion.  I toned the adventurers down a bit since only
two of the four players were present, but they were still a pretty significant
threat: one of them made it to the throne room and had one of the PCs in a bad
position before the other took them out.

Still getting used to the rules, but we're getting better.  The hardest part so
far for me has been remembering to have the *players* describe the outcome of
their rolls (with me jumping in at the point it goes wrong), which is very
different to most RPGs, in which the player describes how they start but the GM
takes over the narration as soon as the dice are rolled.

Hopefully all the players will be present next week, and we can get to some
monstrous action.


## Miscellaneous

### Cult of the Lamb

I started playing [Cult of the Lamb][] today, it's a lot of fun.

![Normal behaviour for woodland creatures.](weeknotes-209/cult-of-the-lamb.jpg)

It's about being an undead lamb in service to a dark god, recruiting followers
and furthering your aims through extreme violence.  I'm not very far into it
yet, but I'm enjoying it.

[Cult of the Lamb]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1313140/Cult_of_the_Lamb/

### Doom Emacs

I've decided to stick with [doom emacs][].  It's not perfect, there are some
things it does differently to my old config which I'm not decided on yet, but on
the whole it feels like an improvement.

[doom emacs]: https://doomemacs.org/


## Link Roundup

### Roleplaying games

- [MY FAVORITE MONTH IS DISMEMBER](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2016/01/my-favorite-month-is-dismember.html)
