---
title: "Weeknotes: 078"
taxon: weeknotes-2020
date: 2020-03-15
---

## Work

I went on support on Wednesday, and heard that there was going to be
some re-jigging of teams next week, so I spent Monday and Tuesday
trying to finish off any stuff I had in progress in case I moved
teams.

I'm actually staying on the search team, but almost everyone else is
moving off it, as new teams are spun up to handle coronavirus-related
work.  Just as the Brexit stuff was calming down a bit, we get a
pandemic...

It's been fairly quiet on support so far, though we've started
smashing our email records.  So many people have been signing up for
travel advice and coronavirus updates, and there have been so many
updates to that content, that we sent 3.6 million emails on Thursday.
When I left the office on Friday we were on track to beat the
pre-Thursday record *again*.  It's nice to see that we're capable of
handling such an increase in load.

## Miscellaneous

### Books

I read volumes 7, 8, 9, and 10 of [Overlord][].  Volume 9 is the last
one covered in the anime, so I'm now in new territory.  I've ordered
volume 11, which is the latest one translated into English (volume 12
comes out in English in June).

I can see why light novels have such a large audience, they're really
quick to read (getting through one volume takes only a few hours), and
you don't need to think so much.  Though that has its downsides too.
I'd really like to see some Silmarilion-style exploration of the
history of the world in the Overlord setting, though that's never
going to happen.  It's all about the main characters, the world is
just the stage on which they perform.

[Overlord]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlord_(novel_series)

### Games

The first proper session of my [Apocalypse World][] game happened
yesterday.  I got a bit stuck a few times with the amount of
improvisation needed, especially when a string of bad rolls exhausted
the list of ideas I'd scribbled down before the session.  But on the
whole I think it went well.

I'm not really sure yet how I feel about the system.  My gut feeling
is that I don't like the core mechanic that much (all challenges are
roll 2d6+stat; 10+ is a success, 7-9 is a partial success, 6- is a
failure with a complication), as one thing I liked a lot in Call of
Cthulhu was [the ability to decide the difficulty of a
task][coc-dice].  In Apocalypse World it's "impossible and doesn't
need a roll to decide that", "possible and doesn't need a roll to
decide that", or "possible, but needs the standard roll to see how it
goes", which is much coarser grained.  I'm trying to give it a fair
chance before deciding, though.

[Apocalypse World]: http://www.apocalypse-world.com/
[coc-dice]: call-of-cthulhu-dice-rolls.html

### Miscellaneous

I watched [The Witcher][] this week.  It was good, I'm looking forward
to the next season.

[The Witcher]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Witcher_(TV_series)

## Link Roundup

- [Issue 202 :: Haskell Weekly](https://haskellweekly.news/issue/202.html)
- [This Week in Rust 329](https://this-week-in-rust.org/blog/2020/03/10/this-week-in-rust-329/)
- [Holmes: A reference library for constraint-solving with propagators and CDCL.](https://github.com/i-am-tom/holmes#%EF%B8%8F%EF%B8%8F-holmes)
